abandoned adj. 1 left alone, forlorn, forsaken, deserted, neglected; rejected, shunned, cast off or aside, jilted, dropped, outcast: An abandoned infant was found on the church steps. Totally alone, she felt abandoned by her friends. 2 bad, immoral, amoral, wicked, sinful, evil, corrupt, unprincipled, unrestrained, uninhibited, reprobate; loose, wanton, debauched, wild, dissolute, dissipated, profligate; depraved, lewd, lascivious, flagitious: His abandoned behaviour soon landed him in jail.
abbreviated adj. skimpy, brief, revealing: The dancers' abbreviated costumes shocked some members of the audience.
abdicate v. give up, renounce, disclaim, waive, disown, surrender, yield, relinquish, abandon, resign, quit: He abdicated all responsibility for care of the children. She abdicated the throne to marry a commoner.
abet v. 1 encourage, urge, instigate, incite, provoke, egg on, prod, goad; aid, help, assist: The jury found that his wife had abetted him in the murder. 2 countenance, approve (of), support, endorse, second, sanction, condone; further, advance, promote, uphold: By failing to inform on the terrorists, the neighbours abetted the bombing.
abhor v. hate, loathe, detest, abominate, execrate; regard or view with horror or dread or fright or repugnance or loathing or disgust, shudder at, recoil or shrink from; be or stand aghast at: He said that he abhorred any violation of human rights.
abide v. 1 stand, endure, suffer, submit to, bear, put up with, accept, tolerate, brook: How can you abide the company of such a fool? 2 live, stay, reside, dwell, sojourn: Local people believe that the rain god abides in these mountains. 3 remain, stay, continue, tarry; linger, rest: He'll abide in my care till he can walk again. 4 abide by. consent to, agree to, comply with, observe, acknowledge, obey, follow, submit to, conform to, keep to, remain true to, stand firm by, adhere to, hold to: You must abide by the rules of the club if you become a member.
ability n. 1 adeptness, aptitude, facility, faculty, capacity, power, knack, proficiency, Colloq know-how: I have perceived your ability to manipulate situations to your own advantage. 2 talent, skill, cleverness, capacity, wit, gift, genius, capability: He has such extraordinary ability it is difficult to see why he doesn't accomplish more. 3 abilities. faculty, faculties, talent(s), gift(s),,skill(s): Her abilities have made her one of the finest cellists of our time.
able adj. 1 capable, qualified, competent, proficient: I feel quite able to take care of myself, thank you. He is an able tennis player. 2 talented, clever, skilled, masterful, masterly; adept, skilful, gifted, superior, expert, accomplished: There is no doubt that Wellington was a very able general.
abnormality n. 1 irregularity, unconformity, unusualness, singularity, eccentricity, unconventionality, uncommonness, deviation, aberration, idiosyncrasy: The desire in a man to wear women's clothing is viewed as an abnormality. 2 distortion, anomaly, malformation, deformity: The child was born with an abnormality of the right foot.
abolish v. eliminate, end, put an end to, terminate, destroy, annihilate, annul, void, make void, demolish, do away with, nullify, repeal, cancel, obliterate, liquidate, destroy, stamp out, quash, extinguish, erase, delete, expunge; eradicate, extirpate, deracinate, uproot: The best way to abolish folly is to spread wisdom. Prohibition in the US was abolished in 1933.
abominable adj. 1 offensive, repugnant, repulsive, vile, monstrous, loathsome, odious, execrable, detestable, despicable, base, disgusting, nauseous, nauseating, foul, abhorrent, horrid, deplorable: He was accused of crimes too abominable to detail in open court. 2 terrible, unpleasant, disagreeable; awful, distasteful, in bad taste, horrible, frightful , Colloq Brit beastly: No one wants to go out in this abominable weather. The dcor in this hotel is simply abominable.
abound v. 1 prevail, thrive, flourish: Disease abounds among the undernourished peoples of Africa. 2 abound in. be crowded or packed or jammed with, be abundant or rich in, proliferate (in or with): The ship abounds in conveniences. 3 abound with. teem or swarm or throng with, be filled or infested with, overflow with: The ship abounds with rats.
about-turn n. reversal, reverse, turn-about, turn-round, U-turn, volte-face, US about-face: There has been a complete about-turn in the policy concerning immigration.
above-board adv. 1 openly, candidly, freely, publicly, frankly, straightforwardly, plainly, for all to see, out in the open, in the open: Donald has always dealt completely above-board with everyone. --adj. 2 open, candid, frank, straight, direct, honourable, straightforward, forthright, guileless, undeceiving, artless, ingenuous, undeceptive, undeceitful, straight from the shoulder; honest, genuine: The company's dealings have always been above-board.
abridgement n. 1 shortening, reduction, abbreviation, condensation, contraction, truncation, trimming: The abridgement took ten years. 2 curtailment: We protested against the abridgement of our right to picket. 3 digest, condensation, epitome, compendium, concise edition or version, cut edition or version; synopsis, abstract, summary, prcis, outline, rsum: The one-volume abridgement of the dictionary is easier to use.
abrupt adj. 1 sudden, hasty, quick, precipitate, snappy; unexpected, unannounced, unplanned, unforeseen, unanticipated: The general's abrupt departure has been linked with the disappearance of a great deal of money. 2 precipitous, steep, sheer, sudden: From the ridge there is an abrupt drop of 1000 metres into the valley. 3 curt, short, brusque, blunt, bluff, gruff, uncivil, rude, discourteous, impolite, unceremonious, snappish: My bank manager gave me an abrupt reply when I asked for an increased overdraft.
absent adj. 1 away, out, off, elsewhere, not present, missing, gone: Twenty people attended, but Harold was conspicuously absent. 2 missing, lacking, wanting, deficient: All warmth is absent from her singing. --v. 3 absent (oneself) from. keep or stay away from; withdraw or retire from: He absented himself from the court during his father's trial for murder. Absent thee from felicity awhile.
absolute adj. 1 perfect, complete, total, finished, thorough, through-and-through, consummate, flawless, faultless, unadulterated, pure, unmixed, unalloyed, undiluted; rank: Alan behaved like an absolute gentleman. 2 complete, outright, downright, genuine, real, pure, out-and-out, transparent, unmitigated, categorical, unqualified, unconditional, utter, veritable, unconditioned: Peace is an absolute requirement for prosperity. 3 unrestricted, unrestrained, unconstrained, unlimited, unmitigated, arbitrary, despotic, dictatorial, totalitarian, supreme, almighty, arbitrary, autocratic, tyrannical: The days of absolute monarchy are numbered. 4 positive, certain, sure, unambiguous, unquestionable, authoritative, verifiable, uncompromised: Few intelligent people would claim absolute knowledge of anything.
absorbed adj. engrossed, lost, wrapped up, occupied, engaged, immersed, buried, preoccupied, concentrating, rapt: He was absorbed in his reading.
abstract adj. 1 theoretical, unapplied, notional, ideational, conceptual, metaphysical, unpractical, intellectual: It is difficult to capture abstract ideas on paper. 2 non-representational, symbolic, non-realistic: Museums began buying abstract art in the 1930s. --n. 3 summary, epitome, synopsis, essence, digest, condensation, survey, conspectus, extract; outline, prcis, rsum: By reading the abstracts, you can determine which articles merit reading in full. --v. 4 epitomize, abbreviate, digest, summarize, condense, shorten, abridge, cut, cut down, US synopsize: The service abstracts articles that appear in scientific journals.
absurdity n. 1 folly, silliness, ridiculousness, foolishness, ludicrousness, nonsense, senselessness, meaninglessness, illogicality, irrationality, unreasonableness, incongruity, stupidity, Colloq craziness, nuttiness , Chiefly Brit daftness: Many comics rely on absurdity rather than cleverness for humour. 2 paradox, self-contradiction, error, fallacy: No one can abide the man's pretentiousness and other absurdities.
abundant adj. 1 plentiful, overflowing, ample, copious, over-sufficient, superabundant, plenteous, profuse, inexhaustible, replete, bountiful, bounteous: The abundant rainfall fills the reservoirs every day. 2 abounding (in), full (of), rich (in), luxuriant, lavish: We know a stream that is abundant in trout. The abundant vegetation of the rain forest is an ecological wonder.
abused adj. 1 misused: Permission to use the office copying machine has become an abused privilege. 2 maltreated, ill-treated, mistreated, hurt: It was explained that he had been an abused child.
abysmal adj. 1 awful, appalling, dreadful, terrible, profound: The government of Nero presented a spectacle of abysmal degradation. 2 abyssal, bottomless, profound, unfathomable, unfathomed: The abysmal depths have been plumbed in the diving bell.
academic adj. 1 scholastic, collegiate; scholarly, learned, lettered, erudite: Green's academic background qualifies him for the professorship. The university began publishing academic journals in the 19th century. 2 theoretical, hypothetical, conjectural, speculative, abstract; ivory-tower, visionary, idealistic; impractical, unrealistic, unpractical: The car doesn't run, so the question of miles per gallon is purely academic.
accept v. 1 receive, take, allow, permit: Sorry, but we cannot accept any more applications. 2 accede (to), agree (to), assent (to), consent (to), acknowledge, admit, allow, recognize: We accept your request for a hearing. 3 assume, undertake, take on or up, agree to bear: I'll accept the responsibility for replying. 4 reconcile oneself to, suffer, undergo, experience, stand, withstand, stomach, endure, bear, resign oneself to, brook, allow, tolerate, take: I think I have accepted enough criticism for one day.
accessible adj. approachable, open, available, attainable, obtainable, reachable, ready, at hand, Colloq get-at-able: The president is always accessible to those seeking help. The mechanism is accessible if the cover is removed.
accident n. 1 mishap, misfortune, mischance, misadventure, blunder, mistake; casualty, disaster, catastrophe, calamity: A high percentage of the road accidents were caused by drunken drivers. 2 chance, fortune, luck, fortuity, fluke; serendipity: I came across the gold ring by accident, when cleaning out a disused cupboard. 3 non-essential, accessory or accessary, extra, addition: Melancholy is an almost inseparable accident of old age.
accommodate v. 1 fit, suit, adapt, adjust, modify; customize: I shall do my best to accommodate the equipment to your needs. 2 harmonize, make consistent, reconcile, adapt: It is uncertain whether his version of the incident can be accommodated to ours. 3 equip, supply, provide, furnish: Can you accommodate me with five pounds till tomorrow? 4 put up, house, lodge, shelter, quarter, Military billet: The innkeeper is unable to accommodate us tonight. 5 suit, oblige, convenience, serve: I was willing to accommodate you by selling your old car.
accommodation n. 1 adaptation, adjustment, modification, change, alteration, conformation, conformity: Her skilful accommodation to her boss's demands kept the peace in the office. 2 settlement, treaty, compromise: Negotiations were now opened for an accommodation between the belligerents. 3 convenience, favour: Would you take the mail to the post office as an accommodation to me? 4 lodging(s), room(s), quarters, shelter, housing; facility, premises, Brit digs, US accommodations: We were able to arrange for accommodation at the hotel. Have you seen our new office accommodation? 5 loan, (financial) assistance or aid; grant, grant-in-aid: The man was able to obtain an accommodation from his brother-in-law.
accomplice n. accessory or accessary, partner in crime, confederate, ally, associate, colleague, fellow, henchman, collaborator, conspirator, co-conspirator, abettor, assistant, fellow-criminal, Colloq US cohort: The police arrested the safe-cracker and three accomplices within hours of the robbery.
accomplished adj. consummate, perfect, expert, adept, skilful, proficient, practised, gifted, talented, skilled, professional: Did you know that she is also an accomplished flautist?
accordingly adv. 1 hence, therefore, consequently, thus, in consequence (where)of, (and) so: Smoking was forbidden; accordingly, we put out our cigars. 2 suitably, in conformity, in compliance; conformably, appropriately, compliantly: Dinner-jackets were required, and the men dressed accordingly.
account v. 1 account for. explain, give a reason for, give or render a reckoning for, answer for, justify, reckon for: The treasurer has been able to account for every penny of expense. His desire to conceal his background accounts for his secrecy. --n. 2 calculation, accounting, reckoning, computation, (financial) statement; enumeration: The accounts show that the company has ample funds in reserve. Williams hasn't submitted his expense account for the trip. 3 interest, profit, advantage, benefit, favour; sake: Nigel turned his convalescence to good account by writing a best seller. Don't read the book on my account. 4 explanation, statement, description, report, recital, narrative, history, chronicle: The defendant gave a credible account of his whereabouts at the time of the crime. 5 consideration, use, worth, importance, consequence, note, value, merit; standing, significance, estimation, esteem: The committee decided that length of service is of some account in determining retirement pensions. 6 story, narration, narrative, report, tale, relation, description: Alice's account of the rabbit wearing a waistcoat is unbelievable. 7 take into account or take account of. notice, take note of, consider, take into consideration, allow for: In passing sentence, the judge took into account the child's poverty and the fact that it was Christmas time.
accountable adj. answerable, responsible, liable, obliged, obligated: I am accountable to no man, but the greatest man in England is accountable to me.
accumulation n. 1 collecting, amassing, gathering, piling or aggregation, heaping up: One effect of the strike was the accumulation of rubbish in the streets. 2 growth, increase, build-up: The accumulation of wealth has never proved a valid purpose in life. 3 heap, pile, mass, collection, hoard, store, stockpile, stock, aggregation; assemblage: Our gardener made sure that there was an ample accumulation of compost.
accurate adj. 1 exact, correct, error-free, precise: She gave an accurate description of the events. There is a nice distinction between 'accurate' and 'precise'. 2 careful, meticulous, nice, with an eye to or for detail, scrupulous, conscientious: Marvin is a very accurate typist. 3 unerring, on target, Colloq on the mark, spot on (target): This rifle is accurate if you allow for the wind.
accuse v. 1 accuse (of or with). blame, censure, hold responsible (for), charge (with), denounce (for), point the finger (at), cite, call to account: She accused the Knave of Hearts of lying. 2 accuse (of or with). charge, indict, impeach, arraign, incriminate; attribute, impute: The prisoner is accused of assault, criminal damage, and disorderly conduct.
accustomed adj. 1 customary, habitual, usual, traditional, normal, regular, set, routine, ordinary, familiar, wonted, common, habituated: The old man took his accustomed place near the fire. 2 used: I've grown accustomed to her face.
achieve v. 1 accomplish, carry out, execute, succeed in, complete, fulfil, bring off or about; realize, effect: When the fund reaches its goal, we shall have achieved our purpose. 2 accomplish, attain, reach, gain, get, acquire, win, obtain: She achieved her ends by cheating and conniving.
acknowledge v. 1 admit, confess, allow, concede, own, recognize, accept, accede, acquiesce; own up to: We acknowledge that we might have been mistaken. She finally acknowledged my presence by looking up. 2 answer, reply to, respond to, react to: She couldn't possibly acknowledge personally every letter she receives.
acme n. peak, apex, top, summit, pinnacle, zenith; climax, culmination: Roger has reached the acme of perfection as a diamond-cutter.
acquaintance n. 1 familiarity, knowledge, acquaintanceship, understanding, awareness; experience: His acquaintance with the works of Coleridge is sparse at best. 2 associate, fellow, colleague: She's not a friend of mine, only an acquaintance.
acquire v. get, obtain, gain, win, earn, procure, secure, come by or into; receive, come into possession of; buy, purchase: He acquired great wealth by marrying rich old dying widows.
act n. 1 deed, action, undertaking, operation, step, move; feat, exploit; accomplishment, achievement: The first act of the new commission was to ban smoking in public places. 2 performance, show, bit, skit, stand, routine, turn, sketch, Colloq thing, Slang US shtick: Stand-up comedians do their acts in nightclubs. 3 performance, pretence, posture, stance, feigning, front, fake, dissimulation, show, deception, hoax, affectation: She didn't mean what she said - it was just an act. 4 bill, law, decree, edict, statute, order, ordinance, command, mandate, resolution, measure, enactment: Are the opening hours of public houses in England regulated by act of Parliament? --v. 5 behave (oneself), carry on, deport oneself, comport oneself, conduct oneself: I don't know how she'll act when we're in public. 6 perform, play, do: She is acting in the West End. 7 portray, represent, impersonate, act out, personify, take or play the part or role of, personate: Reginald acts the fool whenever he has had too much to drink. 8 feign, pretend, counterfeit, fake, dissemble, make believe, sham, simulate, dissimulate, posture: You may think him sincere, but I know he is just acting. 9 take effect, work, operate, function, perform: This drug will act only if taken with meals.
activate v. move, actuate, set in motion, get started, energize, get or set going, start, initiate, switch or turn on, trigger; motivate, rouse, arouse, prompt, stimulate, stir, mobilize, animate, impel, galvanize, Colloq US light a fire under: The sensor in the pavement activates the traffic signal. Her enthusiasm activated him to go into business for himself.
activity n. 1 action, movement, motion, vigour, vim, energy, liveliness, bustle: Last week there wasn't much activity in the stock market. 2 pursuit, occupation, vocation, work, function, operation, job, labour, endeavour, enterprise, project, undertaking, venture, interest: What sort of business activity are you engaged in?
actually adv. really, in reality, in fact, in actuality, in point of fact, in truth, absolutely, as a matter of fact, indeed, truly, literally: The interest rates actually charged by banks may vary from those quoted publicly.
adapt v. 1 suit, fit, make suitable, qualify: The structure of the outer ear is adapted to collect and concentrate the vibrations. 2 alter, modify, change, remodel, tailor, reshape, shape, fashion; adjust, accommodate, accustom, acclimatize or acclimate, habituate: He adapted the play from an old French comedy. The whale adapts itself to great changes in pressure when it dives thousands of feet.
adaptation n. 1 fitting, suiting, modifying, adjusting, conversion: In 1831 electricity was ripe for adaptation to practical purposes. 2 modification, change, adjustment, accommodation, reworking, customization, alteration: She was responsible for the adaptation of her short story to a television play.
addict n. 1 (habitual) user, Slang junkie, dope-fiend, doper, head, pot-head, acid-head, pill popper, tripper, Chiefly US hophead: His contributions helped set up the halfway houses for addicts. 2 devotee, aficionado, fan, admirer, follower, adherent, supporter, enthusiast, Colloq buff, hound, fiend, groupie, Slang freak, bug, nut, teeny-bopper: She became a rock 'n' roll addict in the '60s.
address n. 1 speech, talk, discourse, oration, lecture; sermon: The Prime Minister's address to the nation was broadcast last night. 2 location, whereabouts: She couldn't write to me because she didn't have my address. --v. 3 speak or talk to; deliver or give a speech to; lecture: After the coup, the general addressed the crowd in the square. 4 greet, hail, accost, approach: She was addressing strangers in the street to ask their views on women's rights. 5 address oneself to. devote or direct or apply oneself to: After the holidays, I again addressed myself to studying for examinations.
adequate adj. 1 sufficient, enough, ample; satisfactory, fitting, equal, suitable: Is there language adequate to describe my feelings? 2 passable, fair, fair to middling, middling, average, tolerable, (barely) acceptable, (barely) satisfactory, all right, competent, not (at all) bad, so so , Colloq OK or okay, up to snuff, not that or too bad, no great shakes: The music was good, the band only adequate. 3 equal, suitable, suited, fitted, up, proper, qualified, competent, good enough: Johnson was unsure that he was adequate to the task at hand.
adjust v. 1 set right, arrange, settle, harmonize, reconcile, resolve, set or put to rights; arbitrate, mediate; redress, rectify, correct, patch up: Four were named on each side to adjust their differences. 2 change, alter, modify, regulate, set: After he adjusted the pendulum, the clock kept good time. 3 adapt (to), accommodate (oneself) (to), accustom (oneself) (to); get used (to), acclimatize or acclimate (to), reconcile (oneself) (to): If she travels a distance east or west, it takes her a few days to adjust to the local time. Army life was very different, but I was able to adjust quickly. 4 put in order, arrange, rearrange, close or fasten or zip or button (up): She adjusted the children's coats and did up their shoes.
administer v. 1 administrate, manage, control, run, direct, conduct, superintend, supervise, oversee: The president said that she had administered the department well during her year as its head. 2 execute, carry on, carry out; apply, implement, prosecute: It is the responsibility of the police to administer the law, not to make it. 3 dispense, supply, furnish, give (out), provide (with), mete out, distribute, deliver, deal, hand out: Doctors sometimes administer drugs that have side effects.
admirable adj. wonderful, awe-inspiring, excellent, estimable, splendid, marvellous, superior, first-rate, first-class, of the first water, great, fine, Colloq top-drawer, ripsnorting, A-1, Brit smashing, magic: His performance in Harper's new play is admirable.
admire v. 1 wonder or marvel (at), delight in: Typically, he most admires people who are wealthy. 2 esteem, regard or respect highly, look up to, revere, idolize, venerate, worship: The queen is one of the most admired people in the country.
admission n. 1 access, admittance, entre, entry: The special card gives me admission to the rare book room of the library. 2 reception, acceptance, appointment, institution, induction, installation, investiture: The committee has at last approved the admission of women into the society. 3 acknowledging, acknowledgement or acknowledgment, allowing, allowance, admitting, admittance, conceding, concession: The court refuses to consider the admission of testimony taken under duress. 4 acknowledgement, confession, concession, profession, declaration, disclosure, affirmation, concession, divulgence or divulgement, revelation: The police were able to extract an admission of guilt from the suspect. 5 ticket, (entry or entrance) fee, tariff: Admission is free for senior citizens.
admittance n. leave or permission to enter, entry, entering, entrance, access, entre: Admittance to the club is restricted to members.
adopt v. 1 take (in), accept, take or accept as one's own: Carol and her husband have adopted two children. 2 take, take up or on or over, embrace, espouse; arrogate, appropriate: All Hugh's ideas are adopted from others - he's never had one of his own.
adore v. 1 esteem, honour, respect, admire; idolize, dote on: An entire generation adored the Beatles. 2 worship, venerate, reverence, revere, exalt; hallow: O! Come let us adore him Christ, the Lord! 3 love, be in love with, cherish, fancy, revere, adulate, Colloq have a crush on, carry the or a torch for: Katie just adores the captain of the football team at school.
adulterate v. falsify, corrupt, alloy, debase, water (down), weaken, dilute, bastardize, contaminate, pollute, taint, Colloq doctor; Slang US cut: Adulterated rape seed oil was found to have caused the deaths of more than 600 people.
advantage n. 1 superiority, upper hand, dominance, edge, head start; sway; Colloq US and New Zealand drop: After a year, the advantage was with the Royalists. His height gives him an advantage at basketball. 2 gain, profit, benefit, interest; asset, betterment, improvement, advancement; use, usefulness, utility, help, service: I have information that will be of advantage to her. 3 to advantage. better, (more) favourably, advantageously: The dress sets off her figure to advantage.
adventure n. 1 exploit, escapade, danger, peril; affair, undertaking, feat, deed; experience, incident, event, occurrence, happening, episode: We shared many wartime adventures. 2 speculation, hazard, chance, risk, venture, enterprise: I lost a fortune in some of his financial adventures. --v. 3 venture, hazard, risk, imperil, endanger, jeopardize, threaten: Would you adventure your pension money in such a scheme? 4 dare, wager, bet, gamble, stake, try one's luck, Brit punt: She adventured a whole week's salary on the pools.
adventurous adj. daring, rash, brash, reckless, devil-may-care, bold, foolhardy, hazardous, risky, daredevil, venturesome, adventuresome, temerarious, audacious, bold, intrepid, brave, courageous: She was adventurous enough to sail round the world single-handed. adversary n. 1 foe, enemy, opponent, antagonist, competitor, rival: Before beginning to fight, each adversary sized up the other. --adj. 2 opposed, hostile, antagonistic, competitive: Why does she always take the adversary position in every argument?
advice n. 1 counsel, guidance, recommendation, suggestion, opinion, view; warning, admonition, Technical parnesis: His solicitor's advice is to say nothing. 2 information, news, intelligence, notice, notification; communication: Advice has reached the police that a shipment of arms will leave Dover tonight.
advise v. 1 counsel, guide, recommend, suggest, commend; caution, admonish, warn; urge, encourage: I advised him to be careful driving at night in that area. 2 tell, announce (to), inform, apprise, register, make known (to), intimate (to), notify: We advised her of our disapproval. The police have advised the defendants of their rights.
advisory adj. 1 consultive, consultative, counselling, hortatory, monitory, admonitory, Technical parnetic(al): Our firm has been engaged in an advisory capacity on the privatization of the utility companies. --n. 2 bulletin, notice, warning, admonition, prediction: The Weather Office has issued a storm advisory for the weekend.
aesthete n. connoisseur, art-lover, lover of beauty, aesthetician or esthetician, US tastemaker: It was the aesthetes who set the standard for the art purchased by the museum.
affair n. 1 matter, topic, issue; business, concern, interest, undertaking, activity: These are affairs of state and require the approval of a minister. 2 concern, business, Slang US beeswax: Who wiped the fingerprints off the weapon is none of your affair. 3 event, business, occurrence, happening, proceeding, incident, operation: Last night's farewell party was truly a dull affair. 4 Also, affaire. love affair, amour, romance, intrigue, fling, liaison, relationship, affaire d'amour, affaire de coeur: Lady Constance is having an affair with the gamekeeper.
affect v. 1 assume, adopt, put on, pretend (to), feign, sham, fake, counterfeit: Charles affects a knowledge of high finance. 2 choose, select; use, wear, adopt: He affected a striped blazer and a boater which he wore at a jaunty angle.
affected adj. 1 unnatural, artificial, specious, stilted, stiff, studied, awkward, non-natural, contrived, mannered: Dryden found Shakespeare's style stiff and affected. 2 pretended, simulated, hollow, assumed, feigned, fake, faked, false, counterfeit, insincere, spurious, sham, bogus, Colloq phoney or US also phony: The heir's affected grief concealed his secret exultation. 3 pretentious, pompous, high-sounding, mincing, niminy-piminy, Colloq la-di-da orlah-di-dah or la-de-da: Oliver's affected airs were enough to make his classmates detest him. 4 attacked, seized, afflicted, stricken, gripped, touched; diseased, laid hold of: Her affected lungs never quite recovered. 5 afflicted, moved, touched, stirred, distressed, troubled, upset, hurt; influenced, swayed, impressed, struck, played or worked or acted upon: Many affected theatre-goers enjoyed her performances.
affectionate adj. fond, loving, tender, caring, devoted, doting, warm: She gave her mother an affectionate embrace and boarded the train.
affinity n. 1 relationship, kinship, closeness, alliance, connection or Brit connexion; sympathy, rapport: He felt an affinity with other redheaded people. 2 friendliness, fondness, liking, leaning, bent, inclination, taste, partiality, attractiveness, attraction: I have an affinity for the sea.
affliction n. 1 hardship, misery, misfortune, distress, ordeal, trial, tribulation, adversity, suffering, woe, pain, grief, distress, torment, wretchedness: Moses saw the affliction of his people in Egypt. 2 curse, disease, calamity, catastrophe, disaster, plague, scourge, tribulation, trouble: He often observed that greed was the affliction of the middle class.
afoul adv. afoul of. entangled with, in trouble with, in conflict with, at odds with: Barbara fell afoul of the new tax regulations.
age n. 1 lifetime, duration, length of existence; life-span: The age of a stag is judged chiefly by its antlers. She was sixteen years of age. 2 maturity, discretion; majority, adulthood, seniority: When he comes of age he will inherit millions. 3 period, stage, time: Among these people, both boys and girls undergo rites of passage at the age of puberty. He is a man of middle age. 4 long time, aeon or esp. US eon; years: I haven't seen you for an age! The noise went on for ages. 5 era, epoch, period, time: The 18th century was known as the Augustan Age in England. --v. 6 grow old(er), mature, ripen: O, Matilda, I age too fast for my years! You must first age the whisky in the barrel, then bottle it.
agency n. means, medium, instrumentality; intervention, intercession, action, intermediation; operation, mechanism, force, power, activity, working(s), energy: Pollen is carried from flower to flower by the agency of certain insects.
aggravate v. 1 worsen, intensify, exacerbate, heighten, magnify, increase; inflame: They introduce new problems and aggravate the old ones. 2 exasperate, frustrate; anger, incense, infuriate; provoke, irritate, nettle, rile, vex, annoy, harass, hector, bother; embitter, rankle, Colloq peeve, needle, get on one's nerves; Slang Brit give (someone) aggro: Threats only serve to aggravate people.
aggressive adj. 1 combative, warlike, martial, belligerent, bellicose, pugnacious, quarrelsome, disputatious, litigious; hostile, unfriendly: The Germanic tribes were known to the Romans as aggressive and hardened warriors. 2 forward, assertive, forceful, bold, Colloq pushy: Dennis's aggressive nature may yet make him a good salesman.
agile adj. 1 nimble, quick, brisk, swift, active, lively, lithe, limber, spry, sprightly: Sofia is an agile dancer. 2 keen, sharp, alert, dexterous or dextrous, resourceful, acute: With his agile mind Richard was able to solve the problems in no time at all.
agitated adj. moved, stirred (up), shaken (up), rattled, disturbed, upset, nervous, perturbed, jittery, jumpy, uneasy, ill at ease, fidgety, disquieted, discomfited, ruffled, flustered, unsettled, unnerved, wrought up, discomposed, disconcerted, aroused, roused, excited, Colloq discombobulated: The sheriff was in a very agitated state about the mob forming outside the jail.
agitator n. activist, rabble-rouser, incendiary, agent provocateur, insurrectionist, troublemaker, demagogue, firebrand: The opposition party hires professional agitators to incite the people to riot.
agonizing adj. painful, distressful, distressing, harrowing, torturous, racking, excruciating, tortured, tormented: We went through an agonizing reappraisal of our policy on immigration.
agree v. 1 concur, conform, come or go together, coincide, correspond, harmonize, reconcile; accord, tally, Colloq jibe: At last my cheque-book agrees with my bank statement! 2 Often, agree to. consent to, favour, acquiesce in or to, approve of, accede to, assent to: They finally agreed to our offer. We agreed terms with respect to the contract. 3 concede, grant, consent, admit, approve, allow, accept, concur; accede (to), acquiesce (in or to), assent (to), see eye to eye: The committee agreed that she should be given time to comply with the request. I objected and they agreed with me. 4 agree with. suit: The climate in England agrees with me, strange to say.
agreement n. 1 understanding, covenant, treaty, pact, accord, compact, settlement, concordat; contract, bargain, Colloq deal: They drew up a ten-year agreement to be signed at the summit in Geneva. 2 concord, harmony, compatibility, unity, concurrence, unanimity: Agreement in error is far worse than division for the sake of truth.
aid v. 1 help, support, assist, facilitate, back, abet, uphold, promote; succour, relieve, subsidize: The invasion was aided by Richard's subjects. He salved his conscience by aiding a local charity. --n. 2 help, support, assistance, backing, relief, benefit, service, succour, comfort: He was convicted of giving aid to the enemy in time of war. 3 funding, subsidy, subvention; grant-money, grant, grant-in-aid, scholarship: He could never have gone to university without aid from the endowment.
ail v. 1 trouble, afflict, affect, bother, distress, upset, worry, make ill or sick, pain, hurt: I cannot imagine what ails him, and the doctor can find nothing wrong. 2 suffer, be or feel ill or poorly or unwell or indisposed, US be sick: Granny has been ailing lately.
aim v. 1 direct, point, focus, train, level: The guns of the fort are aimed at the narrow pass. 2 aim at. focus on, have designs on, aspire to, plan for or on, set one's sights on, seek, strive for, try for, wish, want: Edward aimed at absolute dominion over that kingdom. 3 seek, intend, plan: I aim to retire at fifty, if not before. --n. 4 direction, pointing, focus, focusing or focussing, sighting: His aim is so bad that he can't hit the side of a barn with a shotgun. 5 purpose, goal, ambition, desire, aspiration, object, end, objective, target, intent, intention, plan: It was never her aim in life to be rich. The aim of the book is set forth in the Foreword.
air n. 1 atmosphere, ambience, aura, climate, feeling, sense, mood, quality: This restaurant has a delightful air about it. 2 breeze, zephyr, current, draught; breath, puff, wind: Light airs sprang up from the south. 3 manner, style, appearance, aura, feeling, bearing, quality, flavour: Louis has a lugubrious air about him. 4 melody, tune, song, music: She was humming airs from some Italian opera. 5 airs. pretension, pretence, show, affectedness; haughtiness, hauteur, arrogance, superiority, superciliousness: He puts on such airs since he got his knighthood. --v. 6 ventilate, freshen, refresh, aerate: The chambermaid is airing the room, so you can't go in now. 7 show off, parade, display, exhibit; publish, broadcast, circulate, publicize, make public or known, reveal, expose, disclose, divulge, tell, express, declare: Once again Andrew is airing his views on modern art.
alarm n. 1 warning, alert, danger- or distress-signal; tocsin, bell, gong, siren, whistle, horn: At the approach of the storm, the lookouts gave the alarm. The alarm is set to wake me at four o'clock. 2 fear, fright, apprehension, dismay, trepidation, terror, dread, anxiety, excitement, panic, consternation, distress, nervousness, uneasiness, discomfort: He viewed with alarm the arrest of his next-door neighbours. --v. 3 frighten, scare, daunt, startle, terrify, panic; unnerve, dismay, disturb, upset: She was alarmed at the news of the car crash. Don't be alarmed - such delays are quite normal.
alcoholic adj. 1 intoxicating, inebriating: His doctor has forbidden him any alcoholic beverage. --n. 2 drunkard, drunk, dipsomaniac, sot, toper, drinker, winebibber, serious or problem drinker, tippler, Colloq barfly, soak, Slang boozer, alchy or alkie or alky, dipso, stew, rummy, US and Canadian lush, booze-hound, wino: The community runs a centre for rehabilitating alcoholics.
alibi n. 1 excuse, explanation: Your alibi places you very close to the scene of the crime. --v. 2 excuse, explain: Caught red-handed, she couldn't alibi her way out of it.
alienate v. Usually, alienate from. disabuse (of or from), wean away (from), detach (from), distance (from): Gradually the villagers were alienated from their old animistic beliefs.
alive adj. 1 living, live, breathing, among the living, in the land of the living: My great-grandfather is still alive, in spite of years of defying medical advice. 2 alive to. sensitive or alert to, aware or conscious of, aware or cognizant of: She is alive to every slight nuance in the poem. 3 alert, active, lively, vivacious, quick, spirited, animated, brisk, spry, sprightly, vigorous, energetic: Look alive, my lads, and hoist away! 4 astir, teeming, swarming, thronging, crowded, packed, buzzing, crawling, jumping, bustling, humming, Colloq lousy: In a few minutes the water around the corpse was alive with deadly piranha.
allege v. declare, aver, state, assert, charge, affirm, avow, asseverate, depose, say: The guard alleged that he had caught the boy climbing in a basement window.
alliance n. 1 union, confederation, combination, federation, pact, league, association, coalition, affiliation, connection, bond; unity, affinity: The alliance between the two empires has been faithfully maintained. 2 marriage, affinity: The alliance between the two families was welded by the children born of it.
allotment n. 1 share, apportionment, ration, portion, quota, allowance, measure: Each prisoner was given a daily allotment of four ounces of black bread and a cup of water. 2 garden plot, kitchen garden, patch, tract, plot, Brit market garden, US truck garden: If I don't answer the phone, it's because I am digging my allotment.
allowance n. 1 permission, toleration, tolerance, sufferance, admission, concession, sanction; allowing, permitting, tolerating, suffering, sanctioning, brooking, countenancing: There were many causes of difference between them, the chief being the allowance of slavery in the south. 2 payment, recompense, remuneration, reimbursement, remittance: Allowance will be made for all reasonable expenses. 3 stipend, dole, pin or pocket money, quota, ration; pension, annuity, allocation: Bill gets a liberal weekly allowance for expenses. 4 deduction, discount, reduction, rebate; credit; tret; tare: You must make allowance for the weight of the crate. 5 excuse(s), concession, consideration: Allowance must be made for his poor eyesight.
ally n. 1 comrade, confederate, collaborator, coadjutor; accessory, accomplice; associate, partner, friend: I had hoped to have you as an ally in my proposal for reorganization. The Allies finally defeated the Nazi war machine in 1945. --v. 2 league, combine, unite, join (up), team (up), side, band together, associate, affiliate, collaborate, confederate: In their attempt at a take-over of our company, the raiders have allied themselves with two banks. We shall ally the Romans to us and conquer the territory.
aloft adv. above, overhead, (up) in the air, in flight, up (above); on high; heavenwards, skyward: The plane was overloaded, but we finally made it aloft. Five women held the banner aloft.
aloof adv. 1 apart, away, at a distance, separate; at arm's length:We invited Martha to join us but she preferred to remain aloof. --adj. 2 private, reticent, reserved, withdrawn, haughty, supercilious, standoffish, formal, unsociable, unsocial; distant, remote: Deirdre is quite an aloof sort of person - not what you would call a 'mixer'. 3 standoffish, distant, remote, cool, chilly, unresponsive, unfriendly, antisocial, unapproachable; unsympathetic, apathetic, indifferent, undemonstrative: Roger keeps himself aloof from the needs of those less fortunate than he is.
alteration n. change, modification, revision, transformation; adjustment, adaptation, conversion, remodelling: We found places where alterations had been made in the original document. My new suit needs alteration to fit properly.
alternation n. rotation, succession; exchange, interchange: In a temperate climate there is the advantage of the alternation of the seasons.
altogether adv. entirely, utterly, completely, wholly, totally, fully, in all respects, absolutely, perfectly, quite; all in all, in all: I don't altogether agree with you. Altogether, you may be right.
always adv. 1 at all times, again and again, on all occasions, every or each time, each and every time, without exception, unexceptionally; often, many times, usually: He that indulges hope will always be disappointed. I have always made coffee this way and see no reason for changing. 2 forever, continually, ever, perpetually; unceasingly, unendingly, eternally, evermore, ever after, everlastingly, till the end of time, in perpetuity: You are a fool, Mike, and you will always be a fool. 3 in any case, as a last resort: You could always refuse to pay.
amalgamate v. blend, combine, unite, mix, join, consolidate, compound, integrate, merge: The four sentences of the original are amalgamated into two.
amass v. accumulate, mass, pile or heap or rack up, collect, gather (together), assemble, aggregate, cumulate, stock or store up, hoard, set aside: How many points have you amassed? Owing to the bountiful harvest, the farmers amassed huge amounts of grain.
amaze v. astound, astonish, surprise, awe, stun, stagger, take aback, floor, dumbfound or dumfound, confound, nonplus, stupefy, Colloq flabbergast, dazzle: Annie Oakley amazed audiences with her fancy shooting. I was amazed that she still cared for me.
amazing adj. astonishing, astounding, surprising, wonderful, remarkable, extraordinary, marvellous, fabulous, stunning, dazzling, staggering, awesome: The Cossacks put on an amazing display of horsemanship.
ambiguity n. 1 equivocalness, equivocacy, amphibology or amphiboly; vagueness, indistinctness, uncertainty, indefiniteness, imprecision, inconclusiveness: Ambiguity of language must be avoided in legal documents. 2 equivocation, double-talk, double-speak, equivoque; pun, double entendre, amphibologism: The minister's speech was full of ambiguities.
ambitious adj. 1 aspiring, hopeful; enthusiastic: My son, I am just as ambitious for you as you are for yourself. 2 energetic, enterprising, vigorous, zealous, enthusiastic, eager: We prefer ambitious young people to those who are seeking a sinecure. 3 greedy, avaricious, overzealous, overambitious, Colloq pushy, yuppy: Howard is a trifle too ambitious, expecting to be department head after only one year.
amend v. 1 reform, change for the better, improve, better, ameliorate: The prisoner believes he could amend his ways if given the chance. 2 correct, emend, emendate, rectify, set to rights, repair, fix, revise: Take whatever time you need to amend the text.
amends n. make amends. compensate, pay, repay, make reparation or restitution, recompense, redress, remedy, requite: How can the bus-driver ever make amends for the loss of a beloved kitten? amiable adj. friendly, well-disposed, kindly, kind, amicable, agreeable, congenial, genial, warm, winsome, winning, affable, agreeable, pleasant, obliging, tractable, approachable, benign, good-natured, good-hearted, kind-hearted; affectionate: Melissa is well named for her sweet and amiable disposition.
amid prep. mid, in or into the middle or midst or centre of, amongst, among, surrounded by, in the thick of, Literary amidst: She is sitting in her cottage, Amid the flowers of May. Without further ado, she plunged amid the waves.
among prep. 1 amongst, amid, amidst, mid, in the midst or middle or centre of, surrounded by: Please take a seat among the people over there. We lay down among the flowers. 2 among, to each or all (of): The examination booklets were passed out among the students.
ample adj. 1 broad, wide, spacious, extensive, expansive, great: Her ample bosom heaved with sobs. 2 wide-ranging, extensive, broad: In one ample swoop they snatched up all the land. 3 abundant, extensive, fruitful: The event proved a very ample subject for history. 4 abundant, full, complete, plentiful, copious, generous, substantial; sufficient, adequate, enough: He had stored ample provision of food for the winter. 5 liberal, unsparing, unstinted, unstinting, generous, substantial, large, lavish: Steve's contributions have always been ample, especially at Christmas time. 6 copious, full, broad, detailed, extensive, extended, thorough: The subject deserves more ample treatment.
amply adv. 1 widely, broadly, extensively, greatly, expansively: This fabric stretches amply enough to fit over the couch. 2 to a great extent, largely, fully, abundantly: My confidence in her was amply recompensed by her success. 3 abundantly, fully, copiously: The prophecy was amply fulfilled. 4 fully, well, liberally, unstintingly, generously, richly, substantially, lavishly; sufficiently: He has been amply paid for his work.
amuse v. 1 divert, entertain, please, beguile, interest, occupy: Perhaps the crossword puzzle will amuse her while she is waiting. 2 make laugh, delight, cheer, Colloq tickle: That form of rowdy slapstick doesn't amuse me.
anachronism n. misdate, misdating, misapplication; antedate, antedating, prochronism; postdate, postdating, parachronism: The poster showing Cleopatra smoking a cigarette is an anachronism - a prochronism, to be specific.
analysis n. 1 examination, investigation, study, scrutiny, enquiry or inquiry, dissection, assay, breakdown, division: The analysis has shown the presence of arsenic in her soup. 2 interpretation, opinion, judgement, criticism, critique; review: She disagrees with our analysis of the poem.
anchor n. 1 mooring: The ship rode at anchor in the harbour. 2 stability, security, mainstay, support, stabilizer, holdfast, sheet anchor: Marie is an anchor to windward for George, who tends to be a bit irresponsible. --v. 3 attach, affix, secure, moor, fix, fasten; pin, rivet, glue: You must anchor the foundation before adding the walls. She remained anchored to the spot, refusing to move.
anger n. 1 rage, wrath, ire, fury, pique, spleen, choler; antagonism, irritation, vexation, indignation, displeasure, annoyance, irritability, resentment, outrage: Her anger got the better of her, so she simply punched him. --v. 2 enrage, infuriate, madden, pique, incense, raise one's hackles, make one's blood boil, rile, gall; annoy, irritate, vex, nettle, displease, exasperate, provoke: Father was so angered by the insult that he refused to pay.
angle v. angle for. fish for; look for, seek, be after, try for, hunt for: On holiday we went angling for perch. Fran is angling for compliments on her new dress.
anguish n. 1 suffering, pain, agony, torment, torture, misery: She endured the anguish of toothache rather than go to the dentist. 2 suffering, grief, distress, woe, anxiety: He underwent terrible anguish in the waiting-room till the surgeon arrived. --v. 3 disturb, upset, distress, afflict, trouble; torment, torture: The anguished cries of prisoners could be heard.
animate v. 1 activate, enliven, invigorate, stimulate, inspirit, excite, stir, vitalize, spark, vivify, revitalize, breathe life into, innervate: A little enthusiasm would have animated their dull relationship. 2 inspire, inspirit, stimulate, actuate, move, motivate, incite, rouse, arouse, excite, fire (up), encourage, energize, vitalize, spur (on or onwards): He spent the few minutes before the battle in animating his soldiers. --adj. 3 lively, spirited, vivacious, animated, quick: A courser more animate of eye, Of form more faultless never had been seen. 4 alive, moving, breathing, Archaic quick: Although they move, plants are not considered to be animate.
animation n. 1 spirit, spiritedness, vitality, dash, lan, zest, fervour, verve, liveliness, fire, ardour, ardency, exhilaration, intensity, energy, pep, dynamism, enthusiasm, excitement, vigour, vivacity: Johnson was in high spirits, talking with great animation. 2 enlivenment, liveliness, energizing, invigoration, enlivening, innervation: The scout leader was credited with the animation of the youths in his care. animosity n. hostility, antagonism, antipathy, ill will, malevolence, enmity, hatred, animus, loathing, detestation, contempt; bad blood, malice, bitterness, acrimony, resentment, rancour: The animosity he felt for his brother soon disappeared.
announcement n. 1 declaration, pronouncement, proclamation, statement: Ladies and gentlemen, I wish to make an announcement. 2 notification, notice, word: We received an announcement of the wedding but no invitation. 3 commercial, advertisement, advert, ad, spot: The window was filled with announcements of houses for sale. 4 report, bulletin, communiqu, disclosure: An announcement has just been received from the fire-fighters at the scene.
annoy v. 1 irritate, bother, irk, vex, nettle, get on (someone's) nerves, exasperate, provoke, incense, rile, madden, Colloq get at: The anonymous telephone calls were beginning to annoy us. 2 pester, harass, harry, badger, nag, plague, molest, bedevil, Colloq bug, needle, hassle, Slang get up someone's nose: Stop annoying me with your persistent requests for money.
answer n. 1 reply, response; rejoinder, retort, riposte, Colloq comeback: The boy's answer is unprintable. 2 Law defence, counter-statement, plea, explanation; Technical declaration, plea, replication, rejoinder, surrejoinder, rebutter or rebuttal, surrebutter or surrebuttal: Her answer to the charge was 'Not Guilty'. 3 solution, explanation: Ten points were taken off because I had the wrong answer to question three. --v. 4 reply, respond; retort, rejoin, riposte: When I ask you a question, I expect you to answer. 5 satisfy, fulfil, suffice for, meet, suit, serve, fit, fill, conform to, correlate with: The bequest answered my needs for the moment. 6 answer back. talk back (to): How dare you answer your father back! 7 answer for. a be accountable or responsible or answerable for, be to blame for; take or undertake responsibility for; sponsor, support, guarantee: I answer alone to Allah for my motives. So shall my righteousness answer for me. b make amends for, atone for, suffer the consequences of: Caesar was ambitious and he answered for it with his life. c take or accept the blame for: Andy shouldn't have to answer for his brother's shortcomings.
antagonist n. adversary, opponent, enemy, foe; contender, competitor, competition, opposition: The antagonists prepared to fight.
anticipation n. 1 expectation, expectancy; hope: In anticipation of the arrival of Father Christmas, we hung up our stockings. 2 foreknowledge, precognition; intuition, presentiment, feeling; foreboding, apprehension: His anticipation of the solar eclipse by a week established him as the foremost scientist of his day.
antiquated adj. old, old-fashioned, outmoded, pass, out of date, dated, archaic, obsolescent, antique, obsolete, quaint, ancient, antediluvian, medieval or mediaeval, primitive; extinct; Colloq old hat: Antiquated laws list penalties for practising witchcraft.
anxiety n. 1 solicitude, concern, uneasiness, disquiet, nervousness, worry, dread, angst, apprehension, foreboding: Philip began to feel genuine anxiety over Tanya's safety. 2 appetite, hunger, thirst, desire, eagerness, longing, ache, concern: It is every person's anxiety to obtain for himself the inestimable pearl of genuine knowledge.
apart adv. 1 aside, to one side, by oneself, at a distance, separate, separately: He stood apart when the awards were given out. 2 separately, distinctly, individually, singly, alone, independently: The provisions of the bill should be seen together as a whole, not viewed apart. 3 to or into pieces, asunder: At the touch of the button, the building blew apart. 4 apart from. except for, excepting, separately from, aside from, besides, but for, not including, excluding, not counting: Apart from the immediate family, no one knows of your indiscretions.
apologetic adj. regretful, sorry, contrite, remorseful, penitent, rueful, repentant, conscience-stricken: The lad was most apologetic for having broken the window.
appal v. dismay, shock, discomfit, unnerve, intimidate, terrify, frighten, scare, horrify, alarm, startle, daunt: The council were appalled to discover that the police superintendent was accepting bribes.
apparel n. clothing, attire, clothes, dress, raiment, garments, Colloq gear, rags, glad rags, duds, Slang US threads: The police found various items of apparel strewn about the flat.
apparently adv. 1 evidently, plainly, clearly, obviously, patently, manifestly: There is apparently no cure in sight for the disease. 2 seemingly, ostensibly, superficially, outwardly: In stop-action photography, the bullet apparently hangs in mid-air.
appear v. 1 come forth, become visible or manifest, put in an appearance, materialize, surface, emerge, rise, arise, come up, enter (into) the picture, show oneself, turn up, arrive, come, Colloq crop or show up; Slang show: Suddenly, a vision appeared before me. His wife appeared after an absence of ten years. 2 perform, act, play, take the role or part of: She has appeared as Roxanne in dozens of productions of Cyrano de Bergerac . 3 occur, happen, come up, be included, figure, arrive: That four-letter word does not appear in written form till the 20th century. 4 seem, be clear or evident or plain or manifest; look: It appears that the money was taken while the manager was at lunch. 5 be published, come out, become available: The next issue will appear in March.
appetite n. 1 desire, inclination, proclivity, tendency, disposition, bent, preference, liking, predilection, zest, fondness, love, zeal; enthusiasm; taste, relish; Formal appetency, appetence: I have never lost my appetite for chocolate. They tried to suppress their bodily appetites, such as hunger and lust. 2 craving, hunger, thirst, desire, keenness, hankering, yearning, longing, passion, demand, Formal edacity: She developed an insatiable appetite for reading.
applause n. clapping, acclamation, acclaim, clat; cheering, cheers; approval, commendation, approbation, praise, kudos, plaudit(s): At the curtain there was applause from the audience.
application n. 1 use, employment, utilization, practice, operation: The committee wants to see a sterner application of the law with respect to mail-order offers. 2 relevancy, relevance, reference, pertinence, germaneness, appositeness; bearing: The application of the regulation to present circumstances is somewhat vague. 3 attention; diligence, industriousness, effort, perseverance, persistence, assiduity, devotion, dedication, commitment, attentiveness Colloq stick-to-it-iveness; industry: Her application to her studies leaves little time for recreation. Without application, you will never develop much skill at the piano. 4 request, solicitation; appeal, petition, claim: Gavin made six job applications. The board will consider your application.
appoint v. 1 fix, set, settle, determine, ordain, authorize, establish, destine, arrange, assign, allot, prescribe, decree: The time appointed for the execution has been delayed. 2 name, designate, nominate, elect; assign, delegate, commission, deputize; select, choose: I was delighted to have been appointed as chairman. 3 equip, fit out, furnish, decorate: They live comfortably in a well-appointed home in the suburbs.
appreciate v. 1 value, find worthwhile or valuable; esteem, cherish, enjoy, admire, rate or regard highly, prize, treasure, respect: I appreciate all you have done for me. Delia's contribution is not really appreciated. 2 increase or rise or gain in value or worth: The property in this area has been appreciating at a rate of about ten per cent a year. 3 understand, comprehend, recognize, perceive, know, be aware or cognizant or conscious of: Do you appreciate the implications of the new tax law?
apprentice n. 1 novice, tiro or tyro, learner, starter, beginner, greenhorn, Colloq US rookie: Lever served as an apprentice in the soap factory. --v. 2 indenture, contract, bind: Cartwright was apprenticed to a carpenter before becoming a journeyman cabinet-maker.
appropriate adj. 1 suitable, apt, fitting, fit, proper, right, meet, becoming, befitting, seemly, suited, apropos, correct, germane, pertinent, happy, felicitous: Will a dinner-jacket be appropriate attire? She has written a poem appropriate to the occasion. --v. 2 take, take over, seize, expropriate, arrogate, annex, impound; commandeer; steal, pilfer, filch, usurp, make away or off with, Colloq pinch, lift, Brit nick, US boost: The police appropriated the paintings. Somebody has appropriated my chair. 3 set aside or apart, devote, assign, earmark, allot, apportion: Most of the money has been appropriated for back taxes.
approval n. sanction, approbation, blessing, consent, agreement, concurrence; endorsement, acceptance, imprimatur, affirmation, clat, confirmation, mandate, authorization; licence, leave, permission, rubber stamp, Colloq OK, okay, go-ahead, green light: I don't think that the plan will meet with the committee's approval. We gave our approval to proceed.
approximate adj. 1 rough, inexact, loose, imprecise, estimated, Colloq guestimated, ballpark: The figures are only approximate, not exact. --v. 2 near, approach, come close to, verge on: Your estimates approximate those of the budget committee. 3 resemble, approach, look or seem like; simulate: The laboratory tests on rats approximate the way the virus behaves in humans.
aptitude n. 1 fitness, suitability, appropriateness, relevance, applicability, suitableness, aptness: One need only look at an albatross in the air to appreciate its aptitude for flight. 2 tendency, propensity, disposition, predilection, bent, proclivity; talent, gift, ability, capability, facility, faculty, flair: Helen displays a natural aptitude for the violin. 3 intelligence, quick-wittedness, intellect; capacity, aptness: The aptitude of that new student sets her apart from the others in the class.
arch adj. 1 chief, principal, prime, primary, pre-eminent, foremost, first, greatest, consummate, major: Moriarty was Holmes's arch-enemy. 2 clever, cunning, crafty, roguish, tricky, shrewd, artful, sly, designing: Brendan loves to play his arch pranks on unsuspecting friends. 3 waggish, saucy, mischievous, prankish: I could tell from the lad's arch expression that he had thrown the snowball.
ardour n. eagerness, desire, zeal, fervency, burning desire, keenness, fervour, passion, heat, warmth; enthusiasm: Bernadette has supported the cause with great ardour.
area n. 1 space, room: Is there enough floor area here for the carpet? 2 extent, limit, compass, size, square footage, acreage: The area of my greenhouse is thirty by fifteen feet. 3 space, field, region, tract, territory, district, zone, stretch; section, quarter, precinct, arrondissement, neighbourhood, locality, bailiwick, US block: An area was set aside for a garden. There has been a lot of crime in that area lately. 4 scope, range, extent, breadth, compass, section: His studies cover only one area of Scottish history. 5 court, courtyard, enclosure, close, yard; square, ground, arena, field, parade-ground, parade: The soldiers drill in the area behind the barracks.
argument n. 1 debate, dispute, disagreement, quarrel, controversy, polemic, wrangle, squabble, tiff, spat, altercation; conflict, fight, fracas, affray, fray, Donnybrook, feud, Colloq row, falling-out, scrap, barney: The argument was about who had invented the wheel. The argument spilt out into the street. 2 point, position, (line of) reasoning, logic, plea, claim, pleading, assertion, contention, case; defence: His argument has merit. Arthur's argument falls apart when he brings in the phlogiston theory.
arise v. 1 rise, get up, stand up, get to one's feet; wake up, get out of bed, awake: We arose when Lady Spencer entered the room. I have arisen before dawn all my life. 2 rise, go up, come up, ascend, climb; mount: The full moon arose in the eastern sky. 3 come up, be brought up, be mentioned, Colloq crop up: The subject never would have arisen if the waiter hadn't spilt the wine on me. 4 spring up, begin, start (up), originate, come up, Colloq crop up: A very unpleasant situation has arisen regarding the missing funds.
aromatic adj. fragrant, spicy, perfumed, savoury, pungent: A most agreeable scent came from a bowl of aromatic herbs.
arouse v. 1 awaken, raise (up), wake up, waken, rouse, revive, stir (up): I was aroused by the noise and reached for my pistol. 2 excite, stir up, stimulate, awaken, summon up, spark, Colloq turn on: My suspicions were aroused because she was carrying my umbrella. 3 provoke, encourage, quicken, foster, call forth, stir up, kindle, foment: The song aroused feelings of patriotism among the recruits.
arrangement n. 1 order, disposition, grouping, organization, array, display, structure, structuring, ordering, alignment, line-up, Colloq set-up: Don't you care for the arrangement of the furniture, Milady? 2 structure, combination, construction, contrivance, affair, set-up: An arrangement of bricks served as a hearth. 3 settlement, agreement, terms, plan, contract, covenant, compact: The arrangement called for Bosworth to get ten per cent of the gross profits. 4 orchestration, score, instrumentation, adaptation, interpretation, version: I prefer Fats Waller's arrangement of 'Sugar Blues'. 5 arrangements. preparations, plans; groundwork, planning: Arrangements have been made for the limousine to pick you up at five.
arresting adj. striking, shocking, remarkable, impressive, electrifying, stunning, extraordinary, surprising, dazzling: It is indeed an experience to be in the presence of such an arresting beauty.
arrive v. 1 come, make one's appearance, appear, turn up, Colloq show up; Slang hit (town), blow in: She arrived only two minutes before the plane was to take off. 2 succeed, prosper, get ahead (in the world), reach the top, Colloq make it, make the grade, get somewhere, get there: Yuppies believe that once they own a fur coat and a Mercedes, they've arrived. 3 arrive at. come or get to, reach; attain: I think that Crumley has arrived at the stage in his career where he merits a promotion.
arrogant adj. 1 presumptuous, assuming, self-assertive, conceited, egotistical, pompous, superior, brazen, bumptious, cavalier: It would be most arrogant of me to take for myself the glory that rightfully belongs to the whole team. 2 haughty, overbearing, imperious, high-handed, overweening, disdainful, contemptuous, scornful, snobbish, supercilious, lofty, swaggering , Brit toffee-nosed; Colloq uppity, on one's high horse, high and mighty, snotty: Since her husband was made a company director, she's become unbearably arrogant.
artful adj. 1 scheming, wily, sly, cunning, foxy, tricky, crafty, deceitful, underhand or underhanded, double-dealing, guileful, disingenuous: That artful fellow managed to sell me a completely useless gadget. 2 ingenious, clever, astute, shrewd, dexterous: She has practised her artful deceptions so long that nobody believes anything she says.
artificial adj. 1 unnatural, synthetic, man-made, manufactured, simulated, imitation, plastic: The museum has a strange collection of artificial teeth on display. 2 made-up, concocted, bogus, fake, sham, false, counterfeit, Colloq phoney or US also phony: The figures used in the sample survey are entirely artificial. 3 affected, unnatural, forced, pretended, high-sounding, feigned, assumed, contrived, factitious; meretricious, insincere, sham, faked, Colloq phoney or US also phony: I tell you that Alan's concern for you is entirely artificial.
ashamed adj. embarrassed, abashed, humiliated, chagrined, mortified, blushing, shamefaced, sheepish, red-faced: I was ashamed to have to admit that it was I who had written the nasty letter.
aspect n. 1 viewpoint, point of view, position, standpoint, side: Looked at from a different aspect, the problem did not seem insurmountable after all. 2 complexion, light, angle, interpretation, mien, face: His conviction for robbery put a different aspect on hiring him as a security guard. 3 exposure, prospect, outlook, orientation: The western aspect of the room made it sunny in the afternoons. 4 side, feature, attribute, characteristic, quality, detail, angle, facet, manifestation, element, circumstance: There are many aspects of Buddhism that you do not understand.
aspiration n. desire, longing, yearning, craving, hankering, wish, dream, hope; ambition, aim, goal, objective, purpose, intention, plan, scheme, plot: It was his lifelong aspiration to marry someone with money.
assailant n. attacker, assaulter, mugger: My assailant threatened me with a knife.
assemble v. 1 convene, gather, call or bring or get together, convoke, summon, muster, marshal, rally, levy, round up, collect, congregate, forgather or foregather; meet: The forces were assembled along the waterfront. A small crowd assembled at the airport. 2 accumulate, gather, amass, collect, bring or group or lump together, compile, unite, join or draw together: The paintings were assembled from many sources. 3 construct, put together, erect, set up, fit or join or piece together, connect, fabricate, manufacture, make: The sculpture was assembled from so-called objets trouvs , or 'found' objects.
assertion n. 1 statement, declaration, affirmation, contention, asseveration, averment, avowal, pronouncement; Law affidavit, deposition: He made the assertion that he had never seen the defendant before. 2 insistence, proclamation, representation, affirmation, confirmation: The kings exercised their jurisdiction in the assertion of their regal power.
asset n. 1 Also, assets. property, resources, possessions, holdings, effects, capital, means, valuables, money, wealth: We have to pay a tax on the company's assets. Her only liquid asset was some shares in the Suez Canal Company. 2 talent, strength, advantage, resource, benefit: His main asset is that he speaks fluent Japanese.
assignment n. 1 allotment, allocation, apportionment, giving (out), distribution: Assignment of posts in the Cabinet is the responsibility of the Prime Minister. 2 task, obligation, responsibility, chore, duty, position, post, charge, job, mission, commission; lesson, homework: Every agent is expected to carry out his assignment. The school assignment for tomorrow is an essay on Alexander Pope. 3 appointment, designation, naming, nomination: The assignment of Neil Mackay to the post was a stroke of genius. 4 designation, specification, ascription: Inancient medicine, the assignment of the functions of the organs was often wrong.
assistance n. help, aid, support, succour, backing, reinforcement, relief, benefit: Can you get up without my assistance? The scholarship fund offered financial assistance.
association n. 1 society, organization, confederation, confederacy, federation, league,union, alliance, guild, coalition, group; syndicate, combine, consortium, cooperative: The society later became known as the British Association for the Advancement of Science. 2 connection, link, affiliation, relationship, bond, tie, linkage, linking, pairing, joining, conjunction, bonding: The association between princes and frogs is probably lost on anyone so literal-minded. 3 fellowship, intimacy, friendship, camaraderie, comradeship, relationship: There has been a long-standing association between Peter and Wendy.
assume v. 1 accept, adopt, take, use, employ; arrogate, appropriate, take over or up, undertake: Who will assume the leadership of the party? 2 take on (oneself), take upon (oneself), put or try on, don, adopt; acquire: Whenever she delivered the information, she assumed the disguise of an old man. That trivial dispute has assumed gargantuan proportions. 3 presume, suppose, believe, fancy, expect, think, presuppose, take, take for granted, surmise, Chiefly US guess: When I saw the knife in his hand, I assumed the chef was going to slice a lemon. The king assumed he had the cooperation of Parliament. 4 pretend to, feign, sham, counterfeit, simulate, sham, affect, fake: Though she cared deeply, she assumed a devil-may-care attitude.
assurance n. 1 promise, pledge, guarantee or guaranty, warranty, commitment, bond, surety; word, word of honour, oath, vow: You have the bank's assurance that the money will be on deposit. 2 insurance, indemnity: His life assurance is barely enough to cover the costs of his funeral. 3 certainty, confidence, trust, faith, reassurance, surety, assuredness, certitude; security: There is no assurance that Herr Kleister will get the job done. 4 audacity,impudence, presumption, boldness, brazenness, nerve, effrontery, insolence , Colloq brass, gall, cheek, chutzpah: With an air of assurance they quote authors they have never read. 5 self-confidence, self-reliance, confidence, steadiness, intrepidity, self-possession, poise, aplomb, coolness, control, self-control, resolve, Colloq gumption, guts, gutsiness: He has the assurance of one born to command.
astonish v. amaze, surprise, shock, astound, stun, stagger, dumbfound or dumfound, bowl over, floor, stupefy, daze, Colloq flabbergast: She astonished the audience with her gymnastic skill. I was astonished when told my wife had given birth to quintuplets.
astound v. surprise, shock, astonish, stun, stagger, dumbfound or dumfound, bowl over, floor, stupefy, bewilder, overwhelm, Colloq flabbergast: We were astounded to learn that he had survived all those years on a desert island. The Great MacTavish performs astounding feats of magic and levitation!
atmosphere n. 1 air, heaven(s), sky, aerosphere: It is gravity that prevents the earth'satmosphere from drifting off into outer space. 2 air, ambience or ambiance, environment, climate, mood, feeling, feel, spirit, tone: There's such a friendly atmosphere in the bar of the Golden Cockerel. The atmosphere became very chilly when she told him she was marrying someone else.
atonement n. amends, propitiation, reparation, repayment, compensation, payment, restitution, recompense, expiation, penance, satisfaction: Hesent her flowers in atonement, together with a note apologizing profusely for his actions.
atrocity n. 1 enormity, wickedness, flagitiousness, iniquity, infamy, cruelty, heinousness, horror, evil, inhumanity, barbarity, savagery: The atrocity of the 'Final Solution' was a well-kept secret during the war. 2 evil, outrage, crime, villainy, offence: She could not listen when the prosecutor read a list of the atrocities perpetrated at the camp.
attached adj. 1 connected, joined, Brit seconded: She has been attached to the Foreign Office for many years. 2 united, fastened, fixed: The knob attached to the outside of the door might come off. 3 Often, attached to. devoted (to), partial (to), fond (of), devoted (to): I feel closely attached to her. I became attached to the painting and did not wish to sell it. 4 spoken for, married, unavailable, engaged, betrothed: I would have asked Suzanne out, but I gather she's attached.
attack v. 1 assail, assault, fall or set or pounce upon; charge, rush, raid, strike (at), storm; engage (in battle), fight; Colloq mug, jump: They were attacked on their way home by a gang of boys. Helicopter gunships were sent out to attack the bunker. 2 criticize, censure, berate; abuse, revile, inveigh against, denounce, condemn, malign, denigrate, decry, disparage, deprecate, vilify: His article attacked the minister for his views on housing. 3 begin, start; approach, undertake: We attacked the meal with gusto. 4 affect, seize; infect: Rheumatism attacks young and old alike. 5 waste, devour, destroy, eat; erode, corrode, decompose, dissolve: Termites have attacked the beams of the house. Watch how the acid attacks the areas on the plate that have not been protected. --n. 6 assault, onset, offensive, onslaught, incursion, raid, strike, inroad,invasion: The enemy responded to our attack with a smokescreen. After capturing the pawn, Karpov launched an attack on the queen. 7 criticism, censure; abuse, denunciation, revilement, denigration, decrial, disparagement, deprecation, vilification: The quarterly's attack is totally uncalled for. 8 seizure, spell, spasm, paroxysm; fit, bout: Preston has had another attack of gout. How do you stop an attack of hiccups? 9 destruction, wasting; erosion, corrosion: Noting the attack on the planks by shipworm, the surveyor declared the vessel unseaworthy. Aluminium will not withstand the attack of the salt air in this area.
attend v. 1 be present (at), go to, be at, appear (at), put in an appearance (at), turn up (at), haunt, frequent; sit in (on), US and Canadian audit: Are you attending the concert? She attends Miss Fiennes's elocution class. 2 turn to, pay attention to, serve, tend to, take care of, deal with, handle, heed, fulfil: I shall attend to your request as soon as possible, Madam. 3 Also, attend to. watch over, wait on or upon, care for, take care of, minister to, occupy oneself with, look after, look out for, devote oneself to: Mrs Atterbury attends the patients in the cancer ward on weekdays. The clergyman has his own flock to attend to. 4 escort, accompany, conduct, convoy, squire, usher, wait upon, follow; chaperon or chaperone: The actress arrived, attended by her entourage of toadies. 5 be associated with, accompany, result in or from, give rise to: A departure in the midst of the battle would be attended by great peril, Milord.
attendant adj. 1 waiting upon, accompanying, following; resultant, resulting, related, consequent, concomitant, depending, accessory: The circumstances attendant on your acceptance of the post are immaterial. --n. 2 escort, servant, menial, helper, usher or usherette, chaperon orchaperone; aide, subordinate, underling, assistant; follower, Derogatory lackey, flunkey, slave; Colloq US cohort: He dismissed his attendants and entered the church alone.
attentive adj. 1 heedful, observant, awake, alert, intent, watchful, concentrating, assiduous; mindful, considerate: James is very attentive in class. You really must be more attentive to the needs of others. 2 polite, courteous, courtly, gallant, gracious, accommodating, considerate, thoughtful, solicitous, civil, respectful, deferential: He is always very attentive to the ladies.
attitude n. 1 posture, position, disposition, stance, bearing, carriage, aspect, demeanour: The attitude of the figures in the sculpture was one of supplication. 2 posture, position, disposition, opinion, feeling, view, point of view, viewpoint, approach, leaning, thought, inclination, bent, tendency, orientation: What is your attitude towards the situation in South Africa?
attraction n. 1 draw, appeal; magnetism; gravitation, Colloq pull: David confidedto Joan that he felt a strong attraction to her. There is an attraction between the north and south poles of these magnets. 2 draw, lure, enticement, attractant, inducement; show, entertainment, presentation, performance , Colloq come-on, crowd-puller, crowd-pleaser: The presence of the movie stars has been a powerful attraction. The producer has planned to repeat the attraction every evening.
attribute n. 1 quality, character, characteristic, property, feature, trait, virtue: It is surprising how soon historical personages become invested with romantic attributes. --v. 2 ascribe, impute, assign, put down to, trace to, charge, credit: Theshrivelled arm of Richard the Third was attributed to witchcraft. To what do you attribute your interest in birds?
audacious adj. 1 daring, bold, confident, intrepid, brave, courageous, adventurous, venturesome, reckless, rash, foolhardy, daredevil, devil-may-care, fearless, doughty, mettlesome: The troop launched an audacious daylight attack. Cranshaw made an audacious bid for the chairmanship. 2 presumptuous, shameless, bold, impudent, pert, saucy, defiant, impertinent, insolent, brazen, unabashed, rude, disrespectful, cheeky, forward: Charlotte was so audacious as to assume that she could win.
auspices n. aegis, sponsorship, authority, protection, support, backing, supervision, guidance, patronage, sanction, approval, control, influence: The competition is under the auspices of the astronomical society.
authenticate v. verify, validate, certify, substantiate, endorse, vouch for, confirm,corroborate: You will have to go to the consul to have your passport authenticated.
authoritarian adj. dictatorial, imperious, totalitarian, autocratic, arbitrary, absolute,dogmatic, domineering, strict, severe, unyielding, tyrannical, despotic, Colloq bossy: Why do people ever elect an authoritarian government?
authority n. 1 power, jurisdiction, dominion, right, control, prerogative, authorization; hegemony: Who gave you the authority to tell me what to do? By the authority vested in me, I now pronounce you man and wife. 2 word, testimony, evidence, Colloq say-so: Do not accept anything solely on the authority of the Herald . 3 expert, specialist, scholar, sage, judge, arbiter: Gardner is an authority on Scottish history. 4 authorities. government, establishment, officials, officialdom, powers that be, police: The authorities lowered the speed limit.
automatic adj. 1 self-acting, self-governing, self-regulating, mechanical, robot, automated: Many modern cars are equipped with an automatic choke. 2 mechanical, involuntary, unconscious, instinctive or instinctual, natural, spontaneous, impulsive, conditioned, reflex, robot-like, Slang knee-jerk: Flinching is an automatic reaction to a threatening gesture. 3 unavoidable, inevitable, inescapable, ineluctable: It is automatic for the tax inspector to suspect people of hiding something.
available adj. at or to hand, at one's disposal, accessible, handy, present, ready, (readily) obtainable, convenient, nearby, close by, within reach, on tap, at one's fingertips or elbow: Running water is available. If you need me for anything, I am available. avant-garde adj. innovative, advanced, progressive, experimental, original, new, ground-breaking, pioneering, precedent-setting; revolutionary, extreme, extremist, Colloq far-out, way-out: We disapprove of your avant-garde notions of teaching. Some modern art, avant-garde not very long ago, seems quite conventional today.
avaricious adj. greedy, acquisitive, grasping, covetous, mercenary, selfish; penny-pinching, stingy, miserly, mean, parsimonious, tight-fisted, close-fisted, niggardly, penurious, tight: She fell into the clutches of an avaricious lawyer.
averse adj. disinclined, unwilling, reluctant, resistant, loath, opposed, anti, antipathetic, ill-disposed, indisposed: He does not appear to be averse to your suggestion: in fact, he seems quite keen on it.
avoid v. shun, keep (away) from, keep off, leave alone, keep or steer clear of, refrain from, dodge, circumvent, sidestep, elude, escape, evade: The doctor suggested that I avoid chocolate. Why does Bennie avoid looking me straight in the eye?
award v. 1 grant, give, confer, bestow, present, accord, furnish, endow with; assign, apportion: Her dog was awarded the blue ribbon in the club show. --n. 2 prize, trophy, reward: The award for the tidiest boats has been won by the Bristol Yacht Club. 3 grant, bestowal, presentation, endowment, awarding: Before the award of the prizes, we listened to speeches. Profits were up last year despite a large pay award.
awesome adj. awe-inspiring, awful, imposing, amazing, wonderful, breathtaking, marvellous, wondrous, moving, stirring, affecting, overwhelming, formidable, daunting, dreadful, fearsome, fearful, frightening, horrifying, terrifying, terrible; unbelievable, incredible; alarming, shocking, stunning, stupefying, astounding, astonishing,: The eruption of Vesuvius in AD 67 must have been a truly awesome spectacle.
awfully adv. very (much), badly, terribly, extremely, greatly, remarkably, in the worst way, dreadfully, extraordinarily, exceedingly, excessively, really, fearfully, inordinately; incomparably: I get awfully tired running in the marathon. I'm awfully sorry I'm late. Doreen is an awfully good horsewoman.
babble v. 1 prattle, twaddle, jabber, gibber, chatter, blab, blabber, gurgle, burble, gabble, Colloq blab, blabber, gab, yack, natter, witter, Brit rabbit: The silly fellow kept babbling away, but no one was listening. Madelaine is still too young to talk and just babbles to herself. 2 divulge, tell, disclose, repeat, reveal, tattle, gossip, blurt (out), Colloq blab: Don't tell Nigel about the affair - he'll babble it all over town. --n. 3 gibberish, nonsense, twaddle, prattle, chatter(ing), gibber, jabber, jibber-jabber, drivel, rubbish, bavardage; murmur, hubbub: Ella's conversation about the financial market is just so much babble.
back v. 1 invest in, wager or bet on: She backed a 35-to-2 long shot in the Derby, and she won. 2 Also, back up. a support, uphold, stand behind, promote, encourage, help, uphold, second, side with, endorse, aid, abet, assist; sponsor, subsidize, underwrite, subvene, finance, Slang US and Canadian bankroll: Your mother and I will back you if you want to start a business. b reverse, go or move in reverse, go or move backwards: He backed into the driveway. 3 back down (from) or off (from) or away (from) or out (of) or up. withdraw (from), retreat (from), abandon, retire (from), backtrack (from), shy away (from), recoil (from), turn tail (from): When Percy stood up to him, the bully backed down. The investment sounded risky, so I backed off. Philippa backed out of singing the leading role. Back up and give me room! --n. 4 backside, rear, Technical dorsum: She stood with her back towards me. 5 at the back of or at someone's back. behind, following, pursuing, chasing, US in back of: Here come the hounds at the back of the fox. You were at my back in the queue a minute ago. 6 behind the back of or behind someone's back. surreptitiously, secretly, clandestinely, privately, furtively, sneakily, slyly; treacherously, traitorously, perfidiously, deceitfully, insidiously: Graham is always telling tales about you behind your back. 7 break the back of. a overcome, master: Now that he's broken the back of that problem he can get on with his work. b US crush, ruin, bankrupt, destroy, defeat, vanquish, Colloq break: The government has tried on many occasions to break the back of the Mafia operation. 8 on (someone's) back. US weighing (down) on or upon (someone), burdening (someone), lodged with (someone), resting with (someone): The responsibility for the decision is on your back. 9 turn one's back on or upon. abandon, forsake, ignore, disregard, repudiate, reject, cast off, disown, deny: He turned his back on her when she needed him most. 10 with one's back to or against the wall. hard pressed, struggling (against odds), without hope, with little or no hope, helpless, in dire straits, in (serious) trouble: After the stock-market crash, some brokers found themselves with their backs to the wall. --adj. 11 rear; service, servants': Both back tyres are flat. Please use the back staircase from now on. 12 US and Australian and New Zealand outlying, remote, isolated, distant; undeveloped, primitive, raw, rough, uncivilized: They raised three boys in the back country, and all of them became doctors. 13 in arrears, overdue, past due, late; behindhand: The tax inspector has advised me that I owe thousands in back taxes. --adv. 14 to or toward(s) the rear, rearward(s), backward(s); away: We beat back the enemy in severe hand-to-hand fighting. I accepted his offer at once, lest he should draw back. Get back from the edge! 15 in return or repayment or requital or retaliation; again: I'll pay you back when I have the money. She gave him back as good as he had given. 16 ago, in time(s) past: Two generations back, his was the finest house in the town. 17 behind, behindhand, in arrears, overdue: We are a week back in the rent. 18 go back on. renege, fail; deny, disavow, break, repudiate: He has gone back on his promise to send the payment on the first of every month.
backer n. 1 supporter, advocate, promoter, sponsor, patron: She has always been an enthusiastic backer of adult education. 2 investor, benefactor or benefactress, supporter, underwriter, Colloq angel: The play's backers have made huge profits. 3 bettor, Brit punter: His backers are offering odds of 10 to 1.
backing n. 1 support, help, aid, assistance, succour; approval, endorsement, patronage, approval, sponsorship: He knows that he can rely on the backing of his local party. 2 investment, money, funds, funding, subsidy, grant; sponsorship: How can you launch the company without backing?
backward adj. 1 bashful, shy, reticent, diffident, retiring, coy, timid, unwilling, loath, chary, reluctant, averse: She took him to be a bit backward when he didn't respond to her smile. 2 slow, dim-witted, dull, stupid, slow-witted, dumb, feeble-minded, Colloq Brit gormless, dim: Some of the more backward students will need extra help. 3 slow, late, behindhand, retarded: Millie seemed a bit backward in learning to walk. 4 rearward; to the rear, behind; to the past: She gave him a backward glance. He went on through life with never a backward look. 5 retrograde, retrogressive, reverse, regressive: The ancients were unable to account for the apparently backward motion of the planets. --adv. 6 backwards: Walk backward to the door with your hands up.
bad adj. 1 poor, wretched, inferior, defective, awful, worthless, miserable, egregious, execrable, substandard, unsatisfactory, disappointing, inadequate, non-standard, Colloq lousy, rotten, crummy, Slang Brit grotty, naff: Sometimes they would send him a letter, but he was a bad correspondent. We went to see a rather bad play the other night. 2 corrupt, polluted, vitiated, debased, base, vile, foul, rotten, miasmic, noxious, mephitic, unhealthy, poisonous, injurious, dangerous, harmful, hurtful, pernicious, deleterious, ruinous: It wasn't healthy to be so near the bad air of the sewer. 3 evil, ill, immoral, wicked, vicious, vile, sinful, depraved, awful, villainous, corrupt, amoral, criminal, wrong, unspeakable: The man was thoroughly bad and deserved everything he got. 4 unpleasant, offensive, disagreeable, inclement, severe, awful, unfavourable, adverse, inclement, unpleasant, Colloq lousy, rotten: Surely you're not going sailing in this bad weather?! 5 unfavourable, unlucky, unpropitious, unfortunate, inauspicious, troubled, grim, distressing, discouraging, unpleasant: Agreeing to do that job might yet turn out to have been a bad decision. 6 off, tainted, spoilt or spoiled, mouldy, stale, rotten, decayed, putrefied, putrid, contaminated: The fridge isn't working and all the food has gone bad. She ate a bad egg and felt ill the next day. 7 irascible, ill-tempered, grouchy, irritable, nasty, peevish, cross, crotchety, crabby, cranky, curmudgeonly: Don't go near the boss - he's been in a bad mood all day. 8 sorry, regretful, apologetic, contrite, rueful, sad, conscience-stricken, remorseful, upset: She felt bad about having invited me. 9 sad, depressed, unhappy, dejected, downhearted, disconsolate, melancholy; inconsolable: I feel bad about you losing your purse. 10 naughty, ill-behaved, misbehaving, disobedient, unruly, wild; mischievous: Ronnie isn't a bad boy, he's just bored. 11 distressing, severe, grave, serious, terrible, awful, painful: He was laid up with a bad case of the mumps.
bag n. 1 sack, shopping bag, reticule, string bag, Chiefly Brit carrier bag, Scots or dialect poke, pocket: They have helpers at the supermarket who will carry your bags to your car for you. 2 baggage, luggage, valise, satchel, grip, suitcase, overnight bag, carry-on luggage or bag, Gladstone bag, carpet-bag, portmanteau, toilet kit or case, sponge bag; briefcase, attach case, dispatch- or despatch-case: Boarding in London I flew to Buenos Aires while my bag went to Seoul. 3 purse, handbag, evening bag, wallet, Highland dress sporran: She reached into her bag and felt the gun that the Commander had given her. 4 crone, hag, beast, ogress, gorgon, nightmare, witch, harridan, Archaic beldam, Slang old bat, dog, monster, US two-bagger: Derek has been romancing some old bag for her money. 5 occupation, hobby, avocation, business, vocation, department, concern, affair, Colloq lookout, worry, Slang thing: Peter's bag at the moment is learning to play the violin. --v. 6 catch, trap, ensnare, snare, entrap, capture, land; kill, shoot: We bagged six pheasants and two partridges this morning.
ban v. 1 prohibit, forbid, outlaw, proscribe, interdict, bar, disallow, debar: They have banned smoking in all public places. --n. 2 prohibition, taboo, proscription, interdiction, interdict; embargo, boycott: They have put a ban on the sale of alcoholic beverages. The ban against importing firearms is strictly enforced.
band n. 1 strip, ribbon, belt, bandeau, fillet, tie; stripe, line, border: He wears a cloth band round his head to keep the sweat out of his eyes. There is a decorative band at the top of each page. --v. 2 line, stripe, border: The column is banded at intervals with bas-reliefs depicting scenes from the emperor's life. 3 tie, keep, bind: Only those papers that are banded together should be sent off.
banish v. 1 exile, expatriate, deport, extradite, transport, eject, oust, expel, rusticate, drive out or away, dismiss, excommunicate, outlaw, ostracize: After ten years in prison, the thief was released and banished from the kingdom. 2 drive or drive out or away, expel, cast out, dismiss, reject: He tried to banish suspicion from his mind.
banquet n. 1 feast, sumptuous repast or meal, ceremonial dinner, lavish dinner: At the end of the banquet, the guest of honour rose to make a few remarks. --v. 2 feast, indulge, wine and dine, regale, carouse: The winners of the trophy banqueted night after night on champagne and caviare.
bar n. 1 rod, shaft, pole, stick, stake: A heavy iron bar is used to tamp the dynamite into place in the hole. 2 strip, stripe, band, belt; streak, line: The company trade mark is a narrow red bar around the barrel of every ball-point pen. 3 barrier, obstacle, obstruction, barricade, hindrance, block, deterrent, impediment; ban, embargo: A steel bar was across the entrance. Her pride proved a bar to her success. There is a bar against importing spirits. 4 sandbar, shallow, shoal, bank, sandbank: Because the keel is too deep, the sloop will be unable to cross the bar till high tide. 5 tribunal, court, courtroom, lawcourt, bench: The former mayor was found guilty of corruption at the bar of public opinion. 6 bar-room, saloon, public house, caf, lounge, cocktail lounge, tavern, taproom, canteen, Brit local, wine bar; Colloq pub; Slang boozer, gin-mill: I was at the bar on my third beer when she walked in. 7 counter: We had a quick lunch at the sandwich bar. --v. 8 fasten, close up, secure, shut up; lock, lock up, padlock: We tried to get in through the window, but they had barred it. 9 block, obstruct, stop, stay, hinder, keep (out), shut out, exclude, prevent, forbid, prohibit, set aside; forestall, impede, hamper, retard, balk, barricade; ban, embargo: After his behaviour, he was barred from the club for a year. A huge man in an ill-fitting dinner-jacket barred my way. The regulations bar the import of firearms. --prep. 10 except (for), excepting, excluding, barring, outside (of), save for, aside from, but: It's all over now bar the shouting.
barbarity n. cruelty, inhumanity, ruthlessness, savagery, brutishness, barbarousness, heartlessness, viciousness, cold-bloodedness, bloodthirstiness: The barbarity of this mass murderer cannot be overstated.
barefaced adj. 1 unconcealed, open, undisguised, blatant, manifest, unmitigated, outright, downright, out-and-out, sheer, unalloyed, undiluted: His proposal is a barefaced attempt to gain control of the committee. 2 audacious, impudent, shameless, insolent, impertinent, immodest, bold, arrant, unabashed, forward, brazen, brassy, saucy, pert, unblushing, Colloq cheeky: She said that he was a barefaced liar and that she would have nothing more to do with him.
bargain n. 1 agreement, contract, understanding, arrangement, covenant, pact, compact, settlement, transaction, deal: We made a bargain - I would provide the materials and he would do the work. 2 good deal, Colloq give-away, US steal: If you paid only 100 for this painting, you got a real bargain. --v. 3 negotiate, trade, haggle, barter, dicker, chaffer: We bargained far into the night, and finally came to an agreement after eight hours of discussion. 4 bargain for. expect, count on, anticipate, foresee, take into account, allow for, be prepared for: Even though the storm had been predicted, it was windier than we had bargained for.
barrier n. 1 bar, fence, railing, wall; ditch, ha-ha: A barrier was erected at each end of the street. This barrier will keep the dingoes from killing the sheep. 2 obstacle, bar, obstruction, block, impediment, hindrance: Neither race, nor creed, nor colour shall be a barrier to success. 3 boundary, boundary-line, limit, frontier: No mountain barrier lay between France and Flanders.
base n. 1 bottom, foot, support, stand, pedestal: The base of the statue cracked and the whole thing fell down. Have you been able to find a teak base for the new lamp? 2 groundwork, background, fundamental principle, principle, foundation, underpinning; infrastructure, basis: Henry's charter was at once welcomed as a base for the needed reforms. 3 root, theme, radical, stem, core: In the word interdigitation the base is -digit- . 4 home, station, camp, starting-point, point of departure, post, centre: Using the Sherpa village as a base of operations, we set up smaller camps as we began to climb the mountain. --v. 5 establish, found, secure, build, ground, anchor, fix, hinge, form; derive, draw: We are basing all our hopes on his ability to do a deal. 6 establish, headquarter, post, station, position, place: The company is based in Guernsey.
bashful adj. 1 shy, retiring, embarrassed, meek, abashed, shamefaced, sheepish, timid, diffident, self-effacing, unconfident; ill at ease, uneasy, uncomfortable, nervous, self-conscious, awkward, confused, Colloq in a tizzy, US and Canadian discombobulated: Henry is so bashful in the presence of women that he blushes merely talking to them. 2 modest, coy, unassuming, unostentatious, demure, reserved, restrained, Rare verecund: When we first met, she was a bashful young girl of fifteen who had no notion of her own beauty.
basis n. 1 foundation, base, bottom, heart, footing, principle, underpinning; infrastructure: The three R's form the basis of elementary education. Do you think our society still rests on the basis of the family? 2 essence, main ingredient or constituent, point of departure: The basis of the discussion is that the hospitals are understaffed.
batter v. 1 beat, hit, strike, clout, belabour, pound, pummel or pommel, pelt, bash, smite, thrash, Colloq wallop, clobber: He was battered till he was black and blue. 2 bombard, attack, assault: Battering by the cannons finally breached the wall of the fort. 3 maltreat, mistreat, ill-treat, abuse; maul, bruise, harm, mangle, disfigure: The police report an increase in complaints about battered wives and children.
bauble n. gewgaw, trinket, ornament, trifle, toy, bagatelle, knick-knack, plaything, kickshaw: Wear your diamonds to the ball, my dear, not those cheap baubles.
bawl v. 1 shout, bellow, vociferate, roar, yell, trumpet, thunder , Colloq holler: Fishwives bawled out their wares continuously, creating a deafening din. 2 cry, wail, weep, keen, squall, blubber, whimper; yelp, Colloq yammer: Stop that bawling or I'll really give you something to cry about! 3 bawl out. scold, reprimand, upbraid: My father bawled me out because I stayed out past midnight.
beacon n. signal, sign, fire, light, bonfire, flare, signal fire, Very light, rocket; lighthouse, pharos: Beacons blazed at the tops of the hills to spread the news of the victory. The drunkard's nose shone like a beacon.
beamy adj. broad, wide, broad in the beam; big, heavy, chubby, chunky, fat, obese: She's quite a beamy boat, with accommodation for eight below. A beamy gentleman sat on my homburg, squashing it flat.
bearable adj. tolerable, supportable, endurable, acceptable, manageable: The heat last summer was made bearable only by frequent dips in the swimming-pool.
beast n. 1 animal, creature, being: He loves all the beasts of the field, of the sea, and of the air. 2 brute, savage, animal, monster: I've seen that beast hitting his wife in public.
beat v. 1 strike, pound, bash, smite, batter, pummel or pommel, belabour, pelt, clout, thrash, give (someone) a thrashing or beating, drub, manhandle, thump, whack, cane, scourge, whip, bludgeon, club, cudgel, fustigate; whip, flog, lash , Colloq clobber, wallop, give (someone) a once-over: At first he refused to tell them, but then they beat it out of him. 2 defeat, best, worst, win (out) over, vanquish, trounce, rout, outdo, subdue, overcome, overwhelm, pre-empt; surpass, conquer, crush, master, US beat out: Can they beat Manchester United for the cup? He first beat the Danes, then the Russians. 3 throb, pulsate, palpitate, pound, thump: I could feel my heart beating against my ribs. 4 Nautical tack: Close-hauled, the sloop was beating to windward against the howling gale. 5 hammer, forge, shape, form, fashion, make, mould: They shall beat their swords into ploughshares. 6 mix, whip, stir, blend: Beat two eggs, then add the flour and sugar. 7 tread, wear, trample: The hunters beat a path through the forest. 8 beat it. depart, leave, abscond, run off or away, Slang US take it on the lam, lam out of here, US hit the road: You'd better beat it before the cops come. 9 beat off. drive off or away, rout: We beat off our attackers, who fled into the forest. --n. 10 stroke, blow: The signal was to be three beats of a tin cup on the pipes. 11 rhythm, tempo, measure; pulse, throb, stress, pulsation: In boogie-woogie the beat is eight to the bar. 12 course, round, tour, route, circuit, run, path; area, bailiwick: In the old days, it was the bobby on the beat who prevented a lot of crime. As a reporter, my beat is the financial news. --adj. 13 dead beat, exhausted, spent, drained, worn out, weary, bone-tired, fatigued, fagged: I was really beat after completing the marathon.
beautifully adv. 1 attractively, chicly, fashionably, delightfully, charmingly, splendidly, magnificently, Colloq smashingly: The princess was beautifully dressed in a rose satin ball-gown. 2 admirably, superbly, excellently, wonderfully, marvellously, splendidly, spectacularly, magnificently, Colloq smashingly: Emily played her solo beautifully.
beauty n. 1 loveliness, attractiveness, handsomeness, pulchritude: The beauty of the actress took my breath away. 2 belle, Colloq looker, knockout, dream, dreamboat, stunner: She was one of the great beauties of her day. 3 attraction, strength, advantage, asset: The beauty of the plan lies in its simplicity.
become v. 1 turn or change or transform into: The princess kissed the prince, who immediately became a frog. 2 grow or develop or evolve into; mature or ripen into: It's hard to believe that this dull caterpillar will eventually become a splendid butterfly. 3 enhance, suit, fit, befit, be proper or appropriate for, behove or US behoove: Moonlight becomes you, It goes with your hair. 4 grace, adorn: Walter was a man who became the dignity of his function as a commissionaire. 5 become of. come of, happen to: What will become of you if you don't go to school?
bedlam n. pandemonium, uproar, hubbub, commotion, confusion, tumult, turmoil, furore or US furor, chaos; madhouse: The chancellor's announcement created instant bedlam in the Commons.
befitting adj. fitting, becoming, due, suitable or suited (to), appropriate (to), apropos, proper (to), seemly (for): He really ought to behave in a manner befitting his position as chairman. This must be done with a befitting sense of awe.
beg v. 1 entreat, beseech, plead (with), crave, implore, importune, wheedle, cajole, supplicate (with), pray; ask for, request: She begged me to stay. 2 solicit, sponge, Colloq cadge, scrounge, US panhandle: When he was an alcoholic, he used to beg drinks off everyone.
begin v. 1 start (out or off or in or on), initiate, enter on or upon, set out or about, set out on or upon, Rather formal commence: We began the journey full of enthusiasm. 2 start (off), inaugurate, originate, open, launch, create, establish, found, set up; go into: We began the company five years ago. 3 arise, start, originate, Rather formal commence: The greatness of the Prussian monarchy begins with Frederick II. The paragraph begins in the middle of the page.
begrudge v. 1 resent, envy, grudge: She doesn't begrudge him his success. 2 give (be)grudgingly or unwillingly or reluctantly, deny, refuse: He begrudges her the slightest consideration.
behalf n. on or US in behalf of or on or US in one's behalf. for, as a representative of, in place of, instead of, in the name of, on the part of; in the interest of, for the benefit or advantage of: The lawyer is acting on behalf of the heirs.
behaviour n. conduct, demeanour, deportment, bearing, manners, comportment; action(s): His behaviour in the presence of the royal couple was abominable.
behold v. see, look at, regard, set or lay eyes on, descry, notice, note, espy, perceive, discern, remark, view: As we emerged from the gorge, we beheld the mountain looming above us.
behove v. US behoove; be required of, be incumbent on, be proper of, be fitting of or for, befit; be advisable for, be worthwhile for, be expeditious for or of, be advantageous to or for, be useful to or for, be beneficial to or for: It behoves you to be respectful to the chairman of the board.
belated adj. late; behind time, behindhand, out of date; delayed, detained: I forgot your birthday, so here's a belated gift.
believe v. 1 accept, put faith or credence in or into, find credible, find creditable; allow, think, hold, maintain, feel; take it, suppose, assume: He still believes that the moon is made of green cheese. 2 believe in. trust to or in, rely upon or on, have faith or confidence in, put one's trust in, be convinced of, swear by, credit; have the courage of one's convictions: Do you believe everything you read in the papers? The chairman believes in your ability to carry out the plan. 3 make believe. pretend, suppose, imagine, fancy, conjecture, assume: I used to make believe I was a great detective.
belligerent adj. 1 warring; warlike, militant, warmongering, hawkish, jingoistic, bellicose, martial: The belligerent nations have agreed to discuss an accord. 2 quarrelsome, pugnacious, contentious, disputatious, truculent, aggressive, hostile, combative, antagonistic, bellicose: I cannot see why you have to take such a belligerent attitude towards the chairman. --n. 3 warring party, antagonist, contestant; warmonger, hawk, jingoist, militant: Our country has refused to sell arms to the belligerents in the conflict.
belong v. 1 be a member (of), be affiliated or associated or connected (with), be attached or bound (to), be a part (of): Does he belong to the Green party? He didn't want to belong while his wife was a member. 2 have a (proper) place (in), be proper (to): Do you ever get the feeling that you don't belong here? 3 belong to. be owned by, be the property or possession of: That coat belongs to me.
belongings n. (personal) property, effects, possessions, goods, things, chattels: He returned home to find all his belongings in the street.
below adv. 1 lower down, further down, farther down: Please see the explanation given below. The department head could no longer resist the pressures from below. 2 beneath, underneath, under; downstairs, Nautical below-decks, Brit below-stairs: Can you hear someone walking about below? They put the captain in irons below. 3 on earth, here, in this world, under the sun: Man wants but little here below. --prep. 4 under, underneath, beneath: Below the sea live creatures we have never even seen. Barely discernible below his nose was a tiny moustache. Sign your name below 'Yours truly'. 5 less or lower or cheaper than: The sale price is below cost. 6 deeper or further or farther down than: The current is strongest about six feet below the surface. 7 under, beneath, underneath: Her bright eyes peered at him from below the wide hat. 8 lower or less than, under: The temperature was 20 degrees below zero. 9 inferior or subordinate to, lower than: He gives orders to the servants below him. 10 inferior or secondary to, under, beneath, lower than: In exports, the USA and UK are below Japan. 11 beneath, unworthy of, unbefitting, not worth: Mugging old ladies is below contempt.
bemoan v. lament, mourn or grieve or weep or moan for: She bitterly bemoaned the loss of her sole companion, her canary.
bend n. 1 curve, turn, turning, corner; bow, angle, crook, hook, curvature, flexure: Go left at the bend in the road. If you put a bend in a wire hanger, you can fish out the obstruction. --v. 2 arch, bow, curve, crook: Soak the branch in water and it will bend easily. Stop bending my arm - it hurts! 3 bow; curtsy or curtsey; kowtow, salaam; kneel, genuflect: The cannibal bent down before a pile of skulls. 4 incline, channel, focus, direct, steer, set; fix: He bent his attention on more important matters. She bent her steps towards the cemetery. 5 submit, bow, yield, give way, be pliant or subservient or tractable: The cabinet bends to the will of the prime minister. 6 incline, turn, deflect: As you can see, the ray is bent by the lens.
beneath adv. 1 low or lower down, below, under, underneath: Please sign beneath if you agree the terms. 2 below, underneath, under; underground: The flowers are above the ground, the roots beneath. --prep. 3 under, underneath, below: Beneath that gruff exterior of his beats a heart of gold. 4 below, unworthy of, unbefitting, undeserving of, not (even) meriting, lower than: Your behaviour is beneath criticism.
beneficial adj. 1 advantageous, serviceable, useful, profitable, helpful, supportive, favourable, constructive, good: No measures could have been more beneficial to the kingdom. 2 healthful, healthy, salutary, salubrious; efficacious, effective: A certain amount of sunshine is quite beneficial.
benevolent adj. charitable, well-disposed, gracious, good, kind, kindly, humane, humanitarian, well-wishing, thoughtful, considerate, sympathetic, caring, kind-hearted, warm-hearted, compassionate, benign, benignant; liberal, generous, magnanimous, open-handed; beneficial, helpful, salutary: That hypocrite has cast himself in the role of a benevolent despot.
benign adj. 1 kindly, gracious, good, kind, kind-hearted, benevolent, benignant, warm, warm-hearted, cordial, genial, congenial, tender, tender-hearted, compassionate, sympathetic, soft-hearted: It was Grandad's benign goodwill that kept us together in those hard times. 2 bland, gentle, mild, warm: A benign smile lit the headmaster's face as he announced the awards for scholastic achievement. 3 kind, favourable, fortunate; salutary, salubrious, mild, congenial, propitious: She recovered rapidly in that most benign climate. 4 non-fatal, non-malignant, non-virulent, curable, harmless: Fortunately, the biopsy showed that the tumour was benign.
bequeath v. leave, make over, will, pass on, hand down or on, transmit, Law devise: Aunt Margaret has bequeathed her collection of music boxes to the museum.
berate v. scold, chide, rate, upbraid, revile, abuse, rail at, excoriate, castigate, objurgate; harangue: In the square an ancient virago was berating a butcher.
berserk adj. amok, mad, violent, wild, crazed, frenzied, maniacal: He went berserk, destroying tables and chairs.
beset v. encompass, surround, besiege; assail, attack, harass, harry, hector, bother, afflict, trouble: She was beset by all the problems involved in having a job and a family.
besides adv. 1 in addition, additionally, also; further, furthermore, moreover, as well, too; to boot, on top of everything else, into the bargain: Maria is our choice for the post and, besides, she's the only qualified person available. On their anniversary he gave her a diamond ring and a sapphire brooch besides. --prep. 2 over and above, above and beyond, in addition to, additionally to, as well as; aside from, barring, excepting, except for, excluding, exclusive of, not counting or including, beyond, apart from, other than: St Paul became acquainted with many Christians besides his converts.
best adj. 1 superlative, unexcelled, finest, pre-eminent, first, superb, unsurpassed, superior, excellent, paramount, first-rate, Colloq A-1, A-one: Henry VIII was the best rider, the best lance, and the best archer in England. 2 kindest, most beneficent, nicest: Which of your brothers is the best to you? 3 foremost, choicest, pre-eminent, most suitable, most appropriate, most qualified, most talented, most desirable, most outstanding: We want the best person to fill the job. 4 largest, most, greatest: She had travelled the best part of the way by ship. 5 richest, wealthiest; first-class, upper crust, upper-class: He associates only with those he considers to be the best people. --n. 6 finest; first: The best is yet to come. 7 finery, best clothes, Colloq best bib and tucker: He was all decked out in his Sunday best. 8 greatest or maximum effort: He did his best but it wasn't enough to win. --adv. 9 most excellently, to the fullest extent, in the most suitable way, most adroitly, most skilfully, most superbly, most artistically: All the children performed well, but Alice performed best. 10 with greatest satisfaction, most successfully: He who laughs last laughs best. --v. 11 win (out) over, conquer, beat, surpass, overpower, get the better of, subdue, defeat, worst, vanquish, trounce, rout, crush, master, outdo, overwhelm, overcome, outwit: He was bested in three falls out of four.
bet n. 1 wager, stake, risk, venture, Brit punt, Colloq Brit flutter: He could not afford more than a small bet. --v. 2 wager, stake, gamble, risk, hazard, play, lay, put, chance, venture, Brit punt: Every week he bet a small amount on the lottery.
betrayal n. 1 treachery, treason, disloyalty, perfidy, traitorousness, faithlessness, bad faith, breach of faith: His delivery of the country into the hands of an invader was an outright act of betrayal. 2 revelation, divulging, disclosure, divulgence: People should not be led into betrayals of their secret opinions.
better n. gambler, speculator, wagerer, gamester, Brit punter, US bettor, Colloq crap-shooter, sport: The betters were gathered round the craps table.
beware v. take heed, be careful, be wary, be cautious, be on one's guard, exercise caution, mind, watch out, look out, take care: There are shoals nearby, so beware. Beware the ides of March!
bewitch v. enchant, entrance, spellbind, charm, fascinate, beguile, cast a spell over, captivate, enrapture: She easily bewitches men with her sultry good looks and her husky, low voice.
biased adj. biased, prejudiced, partial; warped, distorted, jaundiced: I don't want to listen to your biased opinions about women's rights.
bid v. 1 offer, make an offer (for), tender, proffer: We bid 500 for the painting. 2 Archaic or literary ask, pray, press, entreat, beg, request, suggest, invite: She bade me leave her to mourn alone. 3 Formal command, demand, order, tell, enjoin, dictate: Please bid him enter. Custom bade him blow his horn.
big adj. 1 large, great, grand; huge, enormous, immense, gigantic, giant, tremendous, colossal, Brobdingnagian, jumbo, Colloq Brit socking or whacking big or great, US humongous: We live in a big house in the country. 2 ample, hefty, huge, bulky, fat, obese; large, hulking, beefy, burly, brawny, strapping, gargantuan, elephantine, enormous, gigantic, immense, monstrous: The sumo wrestler was one of the biggest men I'd ever seen. 3 tall, grown, mature, grown-up, large: Christopher is certainly big for his age. 4 important, significant, outstanding, weighty, consequential, major, grave, momentous, notable, noteworthy, telling: Changing careers can be one of the biggest decisions of your life. 5 important, prominent, illustrious, noteworthy, notable, renowned, eminent, distinguished, esteemed: Mr Johnson is a big man in our town. 6 generous, magnanimous, charitable, unselfish, giving: It was very big of her to take on the support of the orphanage. 7 popular, famous, well-known, successful: That band is very big with the kids these days. 8 capital, large, upper case, majuscule: Always spell London with a big L. --adv. 9 pompously, boastfully, conceitedly, arrogantly, pretentiously: Alfred talks big at home, but he's very modest when he's with his friends. 10 successfully, well, oustandingly,effectively: I think your speech went over big with those opposed to the new budget.
bigotry n. prejudice, intolerance, bias, partiality: No government that practises bigotry can survive long.
bilious adj. ill-tempered, bad-tempered, ill-natured, peevish, testy, cross, petulant, tetchy, choleric, dyspeptic, angry, wrathful: The director was absolutely bilious when he heard we had lost the account.
bill n. beak, neb, nib, pecker; jaws: One of the birds had a fish in its bill.
birth n. 1 childbirth, delivery, Technical parturition, Old-fashioned confinement: Nicole is expecting the birth of her first baby in early April. 2 origin, creation, emergence, beginning, start, origination: I believe we may be present at the birth of a powerful idea. 3 nativity, origin, extraction; parentage, line, lineage, ancestry, descent, family, blood: She is Scottish by birth. Hortense is of noble birth.
bit n. 1 morsel, piece, scrap, fragment, shred, particle, grain, crumb: We didn't have a bit of food in the house. 2 jot, tittle, whit, scintilla, trace, touch, hint, suggestion, suspicion, particle, iota, speck, atom: There's not the slightest bit of evidence to link her with the crime. 3 moment, minute, second, flash, Colloq two shakes (of a lamb's tail): I'll be with you in a little bit. 4 piece, share, equity, segment, portion, part, fraction: He owns a little bit of the business.
bite v. 1 nip; chew, gnaw: That dog of yours bit a piece out of my ankle. 2 sting: She was bitten by a mosquito. --n. 3 mouthful, morsel, scrap, bit, piece, taste; snack, Slang nosh: The survivors hadn't had a bite of food for three days. Come round for a bite on Sunday evening before the concert. 4 sting: These mosquito bites itch horribly.
bitter adj. 1 harsh, acerbic, acrid, sharp, caustic, mordant: I added some cream to the sauce to try and make it taste less bitter. 2 unappetizing, distasteful, unsavoury, unpleasant, hard (to swallow or take), irritating, obnoxious, disagreeable, nasty, painful, unwelcome, unpalatable: The demand for additional tax payments was a bitter pill. 3 miserable, grievous, dispiriting, distressing, cruel, distressful: Dismissal after all those years in the firm was a bitter experience. 4 resentful, embittered, rancorous; hateful: Andrew felt bitter at not being selected as chairman. 5 stinging, cutting, biting, harsh, reproachful, vicious, acrimonious, virulent; cruel, unkind, unpleasant, nasty: His bitter denunciation of other candidates lost him the campaign. 6 sharp, keen, cutting, severe, biting, cold, wintry, freezing: A bitter gale lashed at the rigging.
bizarre adj. 1 eccentric, unusual, unconventional, extravagant, whimsical, strange, odd, curious, peculiar, queer, offbeat, fantastic, weird, incongruous, deviant, erratic, Slang kinky: The police thought his behaviour somewhat bizarre and invited him down to the station for questioning. 2 grotesque, irregular, nonconformist, nonconforming, outlandish, outr, quaint, fantastic, unconventional: His house is a bizarre mixture of baroque and modern design. blab Colloq v. broadcast, tattle, babble, betray, reveal, disclose, divulge, expose: Don't tell Frieda - she'll blab your secrets all over town.
black adj. 1 jet, jet-black, coal-black, inky, sooty, swart, swarthy, raven, ebony, dusky, Literary ebon, hyacinthine: Her hair was as black as coal. 2 Negro, Negroid, coloured, dark-skinned: Most of the Black races live near or south of the equator. 3 dark, pitch-black, jet-black, coal-black, Stygian; starless, moonless: He bundled his coat round himself and walked into the black night. 4 dark, sombre, dusky, gloomy, menacing, glowering, louring or lowering, threatening, funereal: The sky became black with storm clouds. 5 malignant, baleful, baneful, deadly, deathly, sinister, dismal, hateful, disastrous: It was a black day when he came into my life. 6 bad, foul, iniquitous, wicked, evil, diabolical, infernal, hellish, atrocious, awful, malicious, abominable, outrageous, vicious, villainous, flagitious, vile, disgraceful, unscrupulous, unconscionable, unprincipled, blackguardly, knavish, perfidious, insidious, nefarious, dastardly, treacherous, unspeakable, disgraceful, shameful, scurvy, criminal, felonious: You have told the blackest lies about me. 7 angry, wrathful, furious, frowning, bad-tempered, sulky, resentful, clouded, threatening, glowering: She gave him a black look and he withered in abject fear. --v. 8 boycott, embargo, blacklist, ban, interdict: Because of the dispute over plumbers' wages, the other building-trades unions have blacked every manufacturer in the business.
blackleg n. scab, strikebreaker: Despite the strike, the plant is being operated by blackleg labour.
blade n. 1 knife, cutting edge: Don't hold the knife by the blade. 2 Literary sword, rapier, sabre, dagger, poniard, stiletto, cutlass, bayonet, knife, penknife, jackknife: She plunged the blade in up to the hilt. 3 leaf, leaflet, frond, shoot: The blades of grass were flattened where he had walked. 4 Rather old-fashioned playboy, ladies' man, man about town, fop, dandy: He was quite a gay blade in his youth.
blameless adj. faultless, guiltless, innocent, irreproachable, unimpeachable: Hugh has led a blameless life.
blank adj. 1 empty, plain, bare: I stared at the blank paper, unable to write even my name. 2 unornamented, unadorned, undecorated, void: Whenever Irena sees a blank wall she feels compelled to hang a painting on it. 3 vacant, empty: The actor's mind went completely blank --he had forgotten his lines. 4 passive, impassive, expressionless, emotionless, vacuous, mindless, unexpressive: He gave us a blank look when asked about the missing rare stamps. 5 disconcerted, discomfited, nonplussed, confused, helpless, resourceless, perplexed, dazed, bewildered: The two old men looked at each other with blank and horror-stricken faces. 6 unrelieved, stark, sheer, utter, pure, unmixed, absolute, unqualified: Jack faced the blank prospect of solitary confinement. --n. 7 space; line, box: Please fill in the blanks on the form. 8 nothing, zero, nil; void, emptiness: I asked her when the baby was coming, but I drew a blank.
blas adj. 1 bored, jaded, weary, unimpressed, ennuy: Her blas attitude does little to endear her at job interviews. 2 indifferent, cool, superior, supercilious, sophisticated, unmoved, nonchalant, emotionless, phlegmatic, apathetic, pococurante, carefree, light-hearted, insouciant: His blas behaviour hides his basic feelings of insecurity.
blasphemous adj. profane, impious, irreverent, disrespectful, sacrilegious, irreligious, sinful, wicked, evil, iniquitous: He was excommunicated for his blasphemous writings.
blatant adj. 1 obvious, flagrant, palpable, obtrusive, arrant, shameless, unashamed, brazen, overt, glaring: Those hooligans have shown a blatant disregard for the law. 2 noisy, clamorous, loud, bellowing, strident, vociferous, rowdy, boisterous, obstreperous, uproarious: The blatant radical faction insists on making itself heard.
bleach v. 1 whiten, lighten, fade, blanch, blench, Technical etiolate: My jeans are all bleached by the sun. --n. 2 whitener, chlorine: Add a little bleach to the laundry. bleak adj. 1 cheerless, dreary, depressing, dismal, gloomy, sombre, melancholy, sad, unhappy, mournful: 1940 was one of the bleakest periods in British history. 2 cold, chilly, raw, bitter: The days were getting shorter, and the bleak winter was setting in. 3 barren, bare, exposed, windswept, desolate: How depressing the bleak landscape of the Russian steppes can be in winter!
blend v. 1 mix, mingle, combine, meld, commingle, intermingle: The Latakia is blended with the Virginia to produce a fine smoking tobacco. 2 shade, grade, gradate, graduate, merge, coalesce, fuse, unite: Note how the pink sky and the tinted clouds blend in this Turner painting. --n. 3 mixture, mix, combination, mingling, meld, commingling, intermingling: His humour is a fine blend of the sardonic with slapstick.
blessing n. 1 benediction, prayer, consecration: Each spring the vicar officiated at the blessing of the fleet. 2 boon, favour, advantage, good fortune, godsend, luck, profit, gain, help, asset, gift, bounty: Hot, sunny days are a blessing for wine growers.
blind adj. 1 sightless, eyeless, unsighted, purblind, stone-blind: He has been blind from birth. 2 imperceptive, slow, insensitive, thick, dense, obtuse, stupid, weak-minded, dull-witted, slow-witted, dim-witted, Colloq Brit gormless: How blind some parents are! There's another case of the blind leading the blind. 3 indiscriminate, undiscriminating, heedless, reckless, rash, impetuous, inconsiderate, unreasoning, mindless, senseless, thoughtless, unthinking, irrational, delusional: He did her bidding with the blind obedience of a dog. 4 blind to. unaware or unconscious of, impervious or insensible to, unaffected or untouched or unmoved by: The critics were blind to her merits as a novelist till many years had passed. --v. 5 deceive, blindfold, blinker; bamboozle, hoodwink, fool: Wolsey could not blind himself to the true condition of the church. How jealousy blinds people! 6 conceal, hide, eclipse, overshadow; dazzle, blindfold: The bright lights of the city blinded our view of the airport runway. Her beauty blinded him to her greed. --n. 7 shade, curtain, screen, cover, shutter(s), awning: The sun is too bright - please draw the blind. 8 pretence, pretext, front, cover, smokescreen, stratagem, subterfuge, ruse, trick, deception, Colloq dodge; Slang scam: The plumbing service is merely a blind for getting into houses to rob them.
blink v. 1 wink, flicker, Technical nictitate: She blinked in the strong light. 2 twinkle, flicker, gleam, glimmer, shimmer, flash, sparkle, scintillate, coruscate: A billion stars blinked in the wintry sky. 3 flinch, wince, shrink, quail, blench, recoil, start, move: She didn't even blink when she had the injection. 4 blink at. wink at, ignore, overlook, disregard: That inspector has been known to blink at health violations. --n. 5 wink, flicker: He switched the cards in the blink of an eye. 6 on the blink. Colloq out of order, broken, in disrepair, not working or operating, not operational, Slang US out of whack, on the fritz: The fridge is on the blink again.
blithe adj. 1 blissful, happy, cheerful, joyous, merry, light-hearted, well-pleased, delighted, gay, joyful, elated, jubilant: His spirit was blithe and his heart unquenchable. 2 happy-go-lucky, insouciant, heedless, carefree, unconcerned, blas, casual, detached, indifferent, uncaring, careless: She goes through life with a blithe disregard for the feelings of others.
blob n. gob, gobbet, globule, drop, droplet, bit, gout, lump, dab, Colloq glob, Chiefly US and Canadian smidgen or smidgin: There's a blob of jelly on your tie.
bloodshed n. slaughter, carnage, butchery, killing, murder, blood-letting; violence; genocide: Let's settle this peaceably and avoid bloodshed.
bloodthirsty adj. murderous, homicidal, savage, feral, cruel, ruthless, pitiless, vicious, brutal, sadistic, ferocious, fierce, Formal sanguinary, Literary fell: Bloodthirsty pirates had slaughtered the whole crew.
blow v. 1 breathe, puff, exhale; expel: If the crystals turn green when you blow into the tube, it means that you've had too much to drink. Blow some air into the balloon. 2 waft, puff, whistle, whine, blast: An icy wind blew through the cracks in the windows. 3 Colloq bungle, botch, make a mess of, muff, mismanage, Colloq screw up, mess up, fluff, bugger up, Taboo fuck up: It was my last chance to win and I blew it. 4 Colloq spend, lavish, squander, waste, throw out or away: She blew hundreds on that dress and now she won't wear it. 5 short-circuit, burn out: All the fuses blew when I turned on the electric heater. 6 blow hot and cold. vacillate, hesitate, dither, Colloq shilly-shally: The sales manager has been blowing hot and cold over my proposal for a month now. 7 blow out. a extinguish: I blew out all the candles in one breath. The match blew out in the wind. b explode, burst: One of my tyres blew out on the way over here. c short-circuit, burn out: The lights blew out during the storm. 8 blow up. a become furious or angry or enraged, flare up, lose one's temper, Slang blow one's top or US also stack, flip one's lid: She really blew up when I said I was going to the pub. b explode, burst, shatter, Colloq bust; detonate, dynamite, destroy, blast: The bridge blew up with a roar. Demolition experts will blow up the dam. c enlarge, inflate, embroider, magnify, expand, exaggerate, overstate: The tabloid press has blown up the story out of all proportion. d enlarge, magnify, amplify, expand, increase: Can you blow up just this corner of the photograph? e inflate; distend, swell: We were busy blowing up balloons for the party. --n. 9 gale, storm, tempest, whirlwind, tornado, cyclone, hurricane, typhoon, north-easter, nor'easter: We can expect a big blow tonight - winds of gale force, they say.
blue adj. 1 depressed, low-spirited, dispirited, sad, dismal, down, down in the mouth, gloomy, unhappy, glum, downcast, crestfallen, chap-fallen, dejected, melancholy, despondent, downhearted, morose: I've been feeling blue since Kathleen left me. 2 obscene, vulgar, indecent, titillating, pornographic, dirty, filthy, lewd, smutty, risqu, bawdy, sexy, X, X-rated, 18, US XXX; indelicate, suggestive, off colour, erotic, coarse, offensive, improper: There's a place nearby that shows blue movies.
bluff adj. 1 blustering, gruff, rough, abrupt, blunt, curt, short, crude: Fred's bluff manner puts many people off. 2 frank, open, hearty, straightforward, plain, plain-spoken, outspoken, affable, approachable, good-natured, friendly: That comment is typical of his bluff honesty. --n. 3 cliff, escarpment, precipice, scarp, headland, promontory, palisades: As you sail down the lower Hudson river, the tall bluffs form a natural wall along the western bank.
blunt adj. 1 dull, worn: This knife is too blunt to cut bread. 2 abrupt, curt, rough-spoken, plain-spoken, short, direct, candid, frank, unceremonious, undiplomatic, inconsiderate, thoughtless, brusque, outspoken, bluff, brash, indelicate, rude, uncivil, ungracious, discourteous, impolite; straightforward, straight, uncomplicated, uncompromising: Ralph may be blunt, but at least you know exactly where you stand with him. --v. 3 dull, take the edge off: You've blunted the scissors cutting that cardboard. 4 soften, mitigate, mollify, soothe; efface, dim, obscure, blur, weaken: Mother's love is an absorbing delight, blunting all other sensibilities.
blurt v. Usually, blurt out. burst out with, utter; reveal, disclose, give away, divulge, Colloq blab: She blurted out the name of her accomplice.
bluster v. 1 storm, rage, harangue: It won't do any good to bluster on about the postal service. 2 swagger, strut, talk big, boast, brag, blow one's own horn or trumpet, show off, crow: He's always blustering about his conquests. --n. 3 swaggering, storming, raging, raving, haranguing, tumult; hot air, puffery, bravado, grandiloquence, Literary rodomontade: He's all bluster and will do nothing despite his threats.
boast n. 1 brag, bragging: They did not make good their boasts of being the fastest in the competition. --v. 2 brag, vaunt, crow, show off, Colloq US blow or toot one's (own) horn or trumpet; Slang lay it on thick, talk big: He boasted that he was the best poker player in the casino.
boat n. vessel, craft, skiff, small craft, motor boat, speedboat, knockabout, runabout, yacht, motor yacht, sailing-yacht, Brit rowing-boat, sailing-boat, US row-boat, sailboat, Colloq ship: I bought a 30-foot boat at this year's show. They went off on a slow boat to China.
body n. 1 corpse, cadaver, remains, carcass, Slang stiff: A body has been dragged up from the lake. 2 trunk, torso: They found the body, but the arms, legs, and head were missing. 3 main part or portion, hull, fuselage: The body of the plane remained intact, though the wings and superstructure broke away. 4 substance, essentials, main part, essence, heart, centre, core: The body of the book is all right, but the index needs work. 5 majority, bulk, main part or portion, mass(es): Under Henry VIII the main body of the people were prosperous. 6 association, league, band, corps, confederation, fraternity, society; committee, council; group, assemblage, assembly, congress, company: It is not within the power of this body to do more than vote on the proposal. 7 richness, substance, firmness, consistency, solidity, thickness, density, fullness, viscosity, fullness: This wine has excellent body. Add a little cornflour to give the sauce more body.
bogus adj. counterfeit, spurious, fake, false, fraudulent, sham, imitation, fictitious, Colloq phoney or US also phony: The police reported that a gang was trying to pass bogus money to unsuspecting shopkeepers in the area.
boil v. 1 bubble, seethe; simmer, stew, steam: A pot of soup was boiling on the kitchen stove. 2 seethe, fume, sizzle, smoulder, chafe, fulminate, ferment, sputter, splutter, bluster: When she learned what he had been saying about her, she boiled with furious indignation.
boisterous adj. rowdy, clamorous, rough, noisy, lively, exuberant, unruly, wild, undisciplined, tempestuous, stormy, turbulent, Colloq rambunctious: The boys were sent outside because of their boisterous behaviour.
bolster v. support, prop (up), brace, shore up, buttress, uphold, back (up), reinforce, aid, help, assist, further, advance: The miners cited a lack of safety measures to bolster their arguments.
bomb n. 1 bombshell, shell, explosive: One of the bombs blew up the school. --v. 2 bombard, shell, batter, blow up: Last night the railway station was bombed.
bombast n. pretentious language, flatulence, bluster, show, grandiloquence, magniloquence, hot air, bravado, boast, boasting, Literary gasconade, rodomontade; Colloq puffery: The speaker continued to bore the audience with his pompous bombast.
bombshell n. surprise, shock, eye-opener, bomb, blow, revelation, bolt from or out of the blue, Colloq shocker: Then came the bombshell - she and Tony had been married the week before.
bond n. 1 tie(s), shackles, chains, fetters, manacles, handcuffs, trammels, thongs, cord(s), rope(s); restraint(s), constraint(s), check(s), control(s), rein(s): The council is hampered by the bonds of the old regulations. 2 covenant, pact, contract, agreement, engagement, compact, treaty: To unite the party a bond of confederacy was formed. 3 connection, link, linkage, union, tie, relationship: The main bond between us was a shared love of the theatre. The bond between the veneer and the board should hold with a little more glue. --v. 4 cement, bind, hold together, stick, cohere: They use mortar to bond the bricks together.
bonny adj. beautiful, comely, attractive, pretty, lovely: She's grown into quite a bonny lass.
book n. 1 volume, tome, work, publication; hard-cover, soft-cover, paperback: Our personal library contains more than 5000 books. 2 libretto, words, lyrics: Richard Rodgers wrote the music and Oscar Hammerstein the book for several hit shows. 3 rules, laws, regulations: He always insists that we go by the book. --v. 4 engage, reserve; earmark, ticket; order, register, enrol, list, enlist, log, record, post: Please phone the restaurant and book a table for four for seven-thirty.
bookworm n. bibliophile, book-lover, inveterate or ardent reader, Formal bibliophage: Fiona is such a bookworm, she hardly does anything but read.
boomerang v. rebound, recoil, backfire, miscarry, redound: His plan boomeranged.
boor n. 1 rustic, peasant, yokel, (country) bumpkin, provincial, backwoodsman, US hayseed, hill-billy, Juke, Kallikak, Slang hick: The boor is blind to the beauties of nature. 2 barbarian, yahoo, oaf, clod, clodhopper, philistine, clown, Grobian; hoyden, Colloq lummox, Slang galoot, slob, US goop, slobbovian: The guests behaved like boors, throwing their food at each other.
boost n. 1 lift, shove or push up or upward(s), Colloq leg up; rise, raise: If you give me a boost up, I can reach the window ledge. 2 encouragement, help, aid, assistance, support: With a boost from your constituency, Trevor should win the vote. 3 increase, rise, US raise, hike: He was given a slight boost in salary as an incentive to stay. --v. 4 lift, shove or push up or upward(s), raise: He boosted her over the fence. The second stage is intended to boost the rocket beyond the atmosphere. 5 encourage, promote, help, aid, support, assist, improve: A talk from the manager before the game helped to boost the players' morale. 6 increase, raise: Her salary was boosted twice in one year.
booth n. 1 stall, stand: Our company has taken three booths at the book fair. 2 compartment, cubicle, box, kiosk: We walked across the road to a telephone booth and phoned a garage.
booty n. plunder, gain, spoil(s), contraband, takings, loot, Slang swag, boodle, (hot) goods, take: The pirates fought over the booty seized from the Spanish galleon.
border n. 1 edge, margin, hem, binding, trimming, trim, edging, periphery, purfle, purfling: The border of the tablecloth is beautifully embroidered with flowers. 2 Usually, borders. limit(s), bound(s), confines: Sometimes Tony exceeds the borders of good taste. 3 boundary, frontier: You won't be able to cross the border without a passport. 4 frame, frieze, moulding; dado, wainscot or wainscoting or wainscotting: The border of the fresco is in Greek fretwork design. 5 borderline, edge, verge, brink: She is just on the border of becoming a born-again Christian. 6 bed, flowerbed, herbaceous border: Hollyhocks are growing in the border. --v. 7 edge, trim, bind, fringe, purfle: The hem of the skirt is bordered with lace. 8 resemble (closely), approach (closely), verge upon or on: Isabel's attempts at playing the tuba border on the ludicrous. 9 lie alongside, adjoin, abut (on or upon), verge upon or on, touch, be adjacent to: The territory of the Gauls bordered the western lands of the Germans.
bore n. 1 annoyance, nuisance: Reggie is such a bore - always talking about himself. --v. 2 weary, wear out, tire, exhaust, jade: The programme so bored me that I fell asleep.
borrow v. take, appropriate, draw, adopt, refer to, obtain, Colloq sponge, cadge, touch (someone) for, US bum; Slang mooch: Has Fred borrowed my lawnmower again?
bosom n. 1 breast, chest, bust; Slang boobs, knockers, tits, titties, pair, jugs, Brit Bristols: The sex goddess's lack of talent was more than compensated for by her ample bosom. 2 midst, interior, heart, core, centre: She was welcomed into the bosom of the family as if she had been their own child. 3 soul, heart, heart of hearts, bowels, blood, Colloq gut: I know he loves me, I can feel it in my bosom. --adj. 4 close, intimate, dear, beloved, cherished, boon, special, confidential: We were once bosom companions.
boss n. 1 chief, supervisor, head, administrator, manager, foreman, superintendent, overseer; employer, director, proprietor, owner, Brit managing director , US president, Dialect himself, Colloq supremo, Brit governor, gov., gaffer, US super, leader, kingpin, big cheese, the man, Slang honcho, head or chief honcho, Mr Big, prex or prexy: If you have to leave early, check with the boss. The company boss was interviewed on television last night. --v. 2 supervise, head, manage, run, oversee, overlook, direct, control, superintend, command, take charge, be in charge: Clive has been here only a year and he's already bossing a department. 3 domineer, push or shove around or about, dominate, order about, lord it over: That slave-driver had better stop bossing me about or I'll quit!
botch v. bungle, mismanage, spoil, Colloq screw or louse up, blow, mess up, muck up, make a mess or hash or muddle of; Slang bollocks or ballocks or US bollix up: Give Gordon an assignment and he's sure to botch it.
bottle n. 1 flask, container; fiasco, decanter: The milkman left two bottles of milk. 2 courage, nerve, manliness, manfulness, grit, backbone, gumption, mettle, pluck, Dutch courage, Slang guts; Colloq spunk, starch, US moxie: He was going to tell her off but lost his bottle at the last minute. 3 the bottle. alcohol, alcoholic drink, spirit(s), liquor, booze, sauce: He's back on the bottle after only two weeks of being on the wagon. --v. 4 bottle up. a contain, restrain, hold back, control, suppress, repress, hold or keep in check, stifle: All the emotions, bottled up for so long, burst upon him at once, and he wept pitiably. b trap, cut off, hem in, box in: With the help of the posse, we can bottle up the gang in the canyon.
bottomless adj. unfathomed, unfathomable, abyssal, abysmal, inexhaustible, unlimited, immeasurable, unplumbable: The bottomless ignorance of the man is incredible.
bound n. 1 Usually, bounds. boundary, boundary-line, limit(s), extent, border(s), confines: Please try to keep the dogs within the bounds of the estate. Carl's plan is beyond the bounds of common sense. --v. 2 limit, restrict, confine, delimit, define, circumscribe: The river bounds the property on the east.
bound adj. 1 tied, fast, fixed, fastened, confined, secured: We were bound hand and foot and left in the cave. 2 obliged, obligated, required, constrained, forced, compelled: In the circumstances, Philippa was bound to do as she was told. 3 determined, resolved: Otto is bound to go to the party if Antonia is going. 4 likely, certain, sure, destined, predestined, fated, doomed: He is bound to get the sack if he goes on turning up late. 5 destined, scheduled, booked; headed, directed: We were bound for Cardiff.
boundless adj. limitless, unbounded, unlimited; illimitable, vast, endless, unending, infinite, immense, enormous, immeasurable, incalculable, measureless, unrestricted, unchecked, inexhaustible, unstoppable, unbridled, uncontrolled, Literary vasty: How can you keep up with a teenager's boundless energy?
bounty n. 1 generosity, liberality, munificence, charitableness, philanthropy, charity, unselfishness, beneficence, goodness: The poor used to be dependent on the bounty of the local gentry. 2 gift, present, largesse, grant, subsidy, endowment, subvention: People should be given work and not live off the bounty of the state. 3 reward, award, premium, bonus, gratuity: In America they paid a bounty of 50 for every dead wolf.
bourgeois adj. 1 middle-class, conventional, philistine, capitalistic, propertied; materialistic, greedy, money-grubbing, money-hungry: The yuppies constitute the modern bourgeois element in society. 2 working-class, proletarian, plebeian: In his bourgeois mind, he had only his labour to offer.
bow n. 1 nod; curtsy or curtsey, salaam, kowtow, genuflection, prostration, obeisance: We all bowed respectfully before the emperor. --v. 2 defer, yield, submit, give in, bend, bow down, capitulate: I bow to your greater knowledge of the subject. 3 bend, incline, lower: The servants bowed their heads when the master entered. 4 weigh down, crush, overload, bend down, burden: Michael was bowed down by the responsibilities of his new family. 5 nod, curtsy or curtsey, salaam, kowtow, genuflect, prostrate oneself, salaam, make obeisance: The natives bowed as the king passed by.
bowl v. move, trundle, wheel, roll, spin: We saw him in his car, bowling along at about 40.
box v. 1 fight, engage in fisticuffs, spar, battle: When he was in the army, he boxed for his regiment. 2 strike, buffet, punch, hit, Colloq slug, sock, whack, thwack, clout, belt, thump, lambaste, whomp: Every time she heard him swear, she'd box his ears. --n. 3 blow, buffet, punch, hit, strike, Colloq slug, sock, whack, thwack, clout, belt, thump, whomp: How would you like a box on the ear, you young rascal!
boycott v. 1 blacklist, embargo; avoid, refuse, shun, reject, eschew, pass over or by: They are boycotting Fern's Dairy because it won't hire women. The US government is still boycotting cigars from Havana. --n. 2 embargo, blacklist, blacklisting, ban: A boycott of their products soon forced them to change their policies.
brace n. 1 bracket, stiffener, reinforcement, reinforcer, support, buttress, prop, stay, strut, truss: Two steel braces have been installed to steady the columns. 2 drill: He bored three holes in the wood with his brace and auger. 3 clasp, clamp, buckle, fastener, clip, holdfast, catch, coupler, coupling: Another brace will be needed here to strengthen the handle. 4 pair; couple, span, team (of two): A brace of duelling pistols was sold at auction last week for 20,000. Her carriage was drawn by a brace of palominos. --v. 5 steady, reinforce, support, strengthen, prop or shore up: Iron bars are used to brace the arches. 6 brace oneself. steady or gird or prepare oneself; hold or hang on: I braced myself against the likelihood that she would refuse.
bracket n. 1 support, corbel, console: The mantelpiece rests on a pair of stone brackets. 2 shelf: Her collection of glass paperweights was arrayed on a bracket in the sitting-room. 3 category, class, set, group, grouping, classification, division, level; order, grade, rank: He comes from an altogether different bracket of society. --v. 4 classify, rank, group; unite, combine, join, link: I wish you wouldn't bracket her with me - our politics are as different as day and night.
braggart n. boaster, bragger, braggadocio, windbag, peacock, show-off, Scaramouch or Scaramouche, Slang big-mouth, loud-mouth, gasbag: That braggart William Smith talks about himself incessantly.
brain n. 1 brains, intelligence, intellect, understanding, sense, thought, imagination, capacity, perspicacity, perceptiveness, perception, percipience; wisdom, sagacity, wit, discernment, acumen; knowledge, cognition: Although she's not yet ten, she has the brain to become a great mathematician. 2 genius, mastermind, intellectual; leader, planner: Many people regard Einstein as the greatest brain of the 20th century. Ivor was clearly the brains of the operation.
branch n. 1 offshoot, arm; limb, bough, stem, shoot, twig, sprig: The branches of this tree need trimming. 2 department, section, subsection, division, subdivision, office, part, ramification; affiliate, subsidiary; spin-off: What branch of medicine are you going to specialize in? The company maintains branches in New York and Melbourne. --v. 3 ramify, divide, subdivide, diverge; diversify: This road branches off in three directions. The company will branch out into electronics this year.
brand-new adj. new, unused, fresh, firsthand, mint, virgin: We bought a brand-new car last week.
brass n. effrontery, gall, nerve, temerity, impudence, insolence, rudeness, Colloq cheek, nerve: He had the brass to turn down a knighthood.
bravado n. boldness, bluster, boasting, braggadocio, swagger, front, self-assurance, Literary rodomontade, gasconade; arrogance, pretentiousness, Colloq machismo, Slang Brit side: With an attempt at bravado, the union leader refused to meet the management representatives.
bravery n. daring, courage, valour, heroism, fortitude, fearlessness, intrepidity, intrepidness, pluck, determination, staunchness, firmness, resoluteness, resolution, indomitability, stalwartness, Colloq machismo: One has to admire the bravery of a woman who supported suffrage in the early 1900s.
brawn n. muscle(s), strength, robustness, brawniness, might, power, Colloq huskiness: It must take a lot of brawn to lift those weights.
brazen adj. brassy, shameless, barefaced, brash, outspoken, forward, immodest, unashamed, audacious, candid, open, unabashed, brazen-faced; rude, impudent, impertinent, insolent, saucy, Colloq cheeky, fresh, US sassy: That's the last time I'll let that brazen hussy near my husband!
breadth n. 1 width, wideness, broadness, beam, span, spread, thickness: The breadth of the cloth is 54in. 2 extent, magnitude, degree, amount, scope, expanse, range, area, depth, detail: I like the breadth of coverage of the six o'clock news. 3 liberality, largeness, catholicity, latitude: Great breadth of vision was exhibited in the conference papers.
breakdown n. 1 collapse, downfall, failure, foundering; destruction, ruin: There was a breakdown of our computer system. The arbitrators blamed a breakdown of communication between union and management. 2 (mental) collapse, nervous breakdown, Colloq crack-up: She had a bad breakdown after her daughter was killed. 3 analysis, run-down, detailing, review; decomposition, itemization, classification, dissection, distillation, fractionation: I want a breakdown of these figures by noon. The chemical breakdown of the substance indicated the presence of arsenic.
breast n. 1 chest, bosom, bust; teat, Technical mamma, Slang boob, knocker, tit, titty: He clasped the child to his breast. On some beaches in Europe, women bare their breasts when sunbathing. 2 soul, core, heart, heart of hearts: I feel in my breast it is the right thing to do.
breathe v. 1 live, exist: She believes that there never breathed a wiser man than her father. 2 inhale and exhale, respire, suspire: He was breathing regularly. 3 exhale, expel, puff, blow: The banner depicts a dragon breathing fire. 4 whisper, murmur, hint (at), suggest, tell, speak, say: She told me not to breathe a word of it to anybody.
breeding n. 1 rearing, bringing-up, raising, cultivation, development, propagation: The breeding of sheepdogs has been Tom's hobby for years. 2 (good) upbringing, (good) manners, civility, politeness, politesse, gentility, (good) behaviour: You can tell from the way she treats people that she has breeding.
breezy adj. 1 airy, fresh, windy, draughty, brisk, gusty: The afternoon was breezy and warm, ideal for walking. 2 casual, carefree, light-hearted, cheerful, cheery, airy, lively, spirited, blithesome, buoyant: The chairman's breezy opening of the annual meeting made everyone feel comfortable.
brew v. 1 ferment, cook, boil; infuse: Our beer is brewed using the best hops. 2 concoct, devise, plan, Colloq cook up; contrive, prepare, bring about, cause, produce, hatch: They are brewing up a plot to unseat the financial director. 3 start, go on, hatch, begin, form; stew, simmer, Colloq cook: A storm is brewing. --n. 4 beer, ale, stout; tea; beverage, drink; concoction, mixture: She served me some strange brew in which I could detect cinnamon and nutmeg.
bric--brac n. bric-a-brac, curiosities, knick-knacks, collectables or collectibles, trinkets, gewgaws, gimcracks; bibelots, curios, objets d'art, objets de vertu: On Saturday she went to an antiques fair and bought still more bric--brac to clutter up the house.
bridal adj. nuptial, wedding; conjugal, connubial, marriage: The bridal gown was white, with lace appliqus.
bridle n. 1 restraint, curb, check, control: Man has need of a bridle on his passions. --v. 2 curb, check, restrain, hold in, control: You must learn to bridle your temper. 3 bristle, draw oneself up, be or become indignant, take offence or umbrage or affront (at), be affronted or offended (by): She bridled at the suggestion that she was responsible for Keith's departure.
briefly adv. 1 concisely, tersely, succinctly, in a word, in short; bluntly, curtly, in a nutshell, in a few words, to sum up: Briefly, the plan is a complete non-starter. 2 momentarily, for a few moments or seconds or minutes, fleetingly, hurriedly, hastily, quickly: I stopped briefly at the post office on my way home.
brighten v. 1 illuminate, enliven, lighten, cheer up, liven up, Colloq perk up: Replacing those heavy draperies with thinner curtains ought to brighten the room. 2 shine, polish, burnish: The silver could use a bit of brightening up.
brilliant adj. 1 bright, shining, lustrous, radiant, resplendent, dazzling, luminous; incandescent, glittering, sparkling, scintillating, coruscating, twinkling, Formal effulgent: At the show I saw the most brilliant display of diamonds. 2 splendid, magnificent, superb, beautiful, distinguished, striking, glorious, remarkable, exceptional, outstanding: The audience rose for a standing ovation after the brilliant last movement of the concerto. 3 illustrious, famous, noted, celebrated, eminent, prominent, renowned, accomplished: Paul is one of the country's most brilliant chemists. 4 intelligent, clever, gifted, bright, talented, smart, expert, masterful, accomplished, ingenious, imaginative, creative; quick-witted, sharp-witted, keen-witted, enlightened; resourceful, discerning, able, competent: Goddard's brilliant mind understood principles of practical rocket flight.
bring v. 1 carry, bear, fetch, get, take; deliver: Don't forget to bring some wine home for dinner tonight. 2 lead, conduct, convey; escort, invite, accompany: The road brought me to your house. You can bring anyone you like to the party. 3 draw, attract, lure, allure: What brings you to London? 4 carry, bear, convey; report: She brought word of the uprising. 5 bring on, bring about, occasion, give rise to, be the source or cause of, create, cause, engender, produce; contribute to: The thought of his mother brought tears to his eyes. 6 institute, advance; invoke: She is bringing charges against him for slander. 7 bring about. occasion, cause, bring on, accomplish, effect, achieve, produce: The government has brought about changes in the health service. 8 bring down. a overthrow, depose, oust, unseat, dethrone, overturn, topple: A military faction has brought down the government. b reduce, lessen, diminish, cut (back or down): The chancellor promised to bring down taxes in the next budget. 9 bring forth. a bear, give birth to, produce; yield: The kangaroo brings forth young less than an inch in size. b set forth, bring out or in or up, introduce, present, produce, put out, submit, offer, advance: Mr Hanson has brought forth a new sales plan. 10 bring in. a earn, yield, produce, realize, fetch, return, sell for: Advertising brings in more revenue than subscriptions. b See def. 15, below. 11 bring off. succeed (in), carry out, achieve, accomplish, do, carry out or off, perform, succeed, pull off; Colloq put over: Do you really think she'll be able to bring off her masquerade? 12 bring on. a produce, put on, introduce, bring in: When the children in the audience began to get restless, they brought on the clowns. b induce, produce, occasion, bring about: Eating strawberries brought on a rash. 13 bring out. a display, feature, focus on, illuminate, set off, make noticeable or conspicuous, emphasize, develop: The colour of the dress brings out the blue of your eyes. b publish, issue, release, make known or public, produce; put on, stage: They've brought out a new edition of Dickens's works. 14 bring round or around. a revive, resuscitate, bring to; restore: The smelling salts brought her round when she fainted. b persuade, win over, convince, influence: Can he be brought round to our way of thinking? 15 bring up. a rear, raise, care for, look after, nurture, breed; educate, teach, train, tutor: She has brought up six children on her own. b introduce, broach, bring in, raise, pen (up), set forth, mention, touch on, talk about, discuss; reintroduce, recall: Why bring up irrelevant matters like his age? c raise, elevate: So far, they have brought up only three survivors from the mine. d vomit, throw up, regurgitate, disgorge: He woke up feeling sick and brought up most of the previous night's meal.
brisk adj. 1 active, lively, busy, vigorous: The poachers are doing a brisk trade in rhinoceros horn. 2 quick, animated, sprightly, spry, energetic, spirited: Patrick was a brisk lad, fresh from Oxford. 3 strong, steady, fresh, refreshing, bracing, invigorating, stimulating, crisp, biting, bracing, keen, nippy, chill, chilly, cool, cold: A brisk breeze had started up from the north, chilling us through. 4 energetic, vibrant, invigorating, stimulating: After a brisk massage, Mariette felt completely revitalized.
brittle adj. 1 fragile, frangible, breakable; friable: My fingernails become brittle in the cold and break easily. 2 frail, weak, delicate, sensitive, fragile, insecure: She might seem strong, but she has a very brittle nature and is easily upset.
broad adj. 1 wide, expansive, large, extensive; spread out, ample, spacious: The broad highway stretched out for miles before them. Cattle graze in the broad pastures. 2 bright, plain, open, full; unshaded: He had the nerve to kiss me in broad daylight, in front of everyone! 3 plain, clear, obvious, emphatic, explicit, pronounced, direct, unconcealed, undisguised, unsubtle, evident: His wink gave a broad hint of what he really had in mind. 4 main, general, generalized, rough, unspecific, non-specific, approximate, sweeping: Without the details, here is a broad outline of what happened. 5 plain-spoken, outspoken, forthright, direct, unreserved, frank, candid, unrestrained: When he reached the witness box, he repeated the accusation in broad terms. 6 inclusive, general, widely applicable, extensive, wide-ranging, comprehensive, wholesale; vague, imprecise, indefinite, unfocused, non-specific, unspecified: We have broad support for these policies. She formulated a broad rule to fit all imaginable cases. 7 liberal, tolerant, catholic, ecumenical, latitudinarian: The term 'Broad Church' is said to have been coined by A H Clough. The judge feels that he must give the broadest possible interpretation of the law. 8 dirty, blue, coarse, rude, indecent, vulgar, improper, indelicate, off colour, loose, gross, obscene, lewd, lascivious, filthy, pornographic; inelegant, unrefined, unladylike, ungentlemanly, titillating: Peter was in the corner telling some of his broad jokes. --n. 9 woman, girl, Slang dame, cookie or cooky, skirt, bimbo, bird, chick, number, doll, piece (of baggage): We picked up a couple of broads at the dancehall last night.
brochure n. pamphlet, booklet; catalogue; folder, leaflet; tract: The brochure advertising the company's products will be ready tomorrow.
broke adj. penniless, indigent, down-and-out, poverty-stricken, penurious, impoverished, insolvent, destitute, poor, needy, bankrupt, ruined, Colloq on one's beam-ends, on one's uppers, strapped, flat or dead or stony-broke, hard up, short, up against it, US flat, on the skids; Slang Brit skint: I was broke after paying the rent - I didn't even have money for food.
broken-hearted adj. heart-broken, depressed, downhearted, dejected, devastated, crushed, overwhelmed, heartsick, downcast, upset; forlorn, sorrowful, disconsolate, inconsolable, grief-stricken, miserable, wretched, melancholy, heavy-hearted, sad, doleful, dolorous, woeful, woebegone, gloomy, morose, glum, cheerless, Colloq down: She was broken-hearted when her puppy was lost.
brooch n. clasp, pin; fastening: She was wearing the cameo brooch I had given to her mother.
brook n. stream, rivulet, run, runnel, rill, US and Canadian and Australian and New Zealand creek; No. Eng. dialect beck, gill or ghyll; Scots burn: The river is fed by numerous brooks from every part of the country.
broth n. stock, bouillon, consomm; soup; decoction: We tossed food scraps into the large, simmering pot to make a broth.
brother n. sibling; relation, relative, kin, kinsman; fellow, fellow-man, fellow-clansman, fellow-citizen, fellow-countryman, fellow-creature; associate, colleague, confrre, companion, Colloq pal, chum, Brit and Australian mate, US buddy: Some day, perhaps all men will regard each other as brothers.
brotherly adj. fraternal, kind, affectionate, cordial, friendly, amicable, amiable, neighbourly, loyal, devoted: The boys grew up together and maintained a brotherly relationship throughout their lives.
browse v. look over or through, skim (through), scan, thumb or flip or flick through: I was browsing through some recent acquisitions at the second-hand bookshop.
bruiser n. prizefighter, boxer, fighter; tough, ruffian, bodyguard, thug, hoodlum, bouncer, Colloq hooligan, tough guy, toughie, Brit minder, US roughneck, hood, gorilla, plug-ugly, torpedo, enforcer: The heavyweight contender is really a big bruiser. Mr Big strode in with two of his bruisers.
brush n. 1 brushwood, shrubs, undergrowth, branches, scrub, brush, bracken, brambles, underbrush, underwood: It took us three days to clear the brush from around the house. 2 thicket, brake, copse, grove, boscage: The fox disappeared into the brush, which was too dense for the dogs to follow.
brush-off n. dismissal, rebuff, rejection, snub, Colloq cold shoulder, put-down, slap in the face, the (old) heave-ho; Chiefly US and Canadian walking papers: Tanya has given Theo the brush-off said she never wants to see him again.
brutal adj. 1 inhuman, savage, cruel, pitiless, harsh, severe, barbaric, barbarous, beastly, bestial, sadistic, murderous; inhumane, heartless, hard-hearted, unkind, fierce, stony-hearted, insensitive, unfeeling, cold-blooded, unsympathetic, remorseless, ruthless, ferocious, atrocious, Draconian or Draconic, Literary fell: Few survived the brutal treatment in the concentration camps. 2 rude, ill-mannered, coarse, unrefined, boorish, ill-bred, rustic, crass, uncouth, uncultured, uncultivated, rough, crude: His brutal behaviour made him unfit to represent the Crown.
bubble n. 1 blister, air pocket, globule, droplet: This painted surface is full of air bubbles. 2 bubbles. froth, foam, suds, lather, spume; effervescence, carbonation, fizz: The cider is full of bubbles. --v. 3 foam, froth, boil, seethe, fizz: A pot of soup was bubbling on the stove.
buckle n. 1 clasp, fastener, clip, fastening, hook, catch: The buckle broke on my belt and my trousers fell down. --v. 2 collapse, cave in, crumple, bend, warp, distort, twist, bulge: The support gave way and the entire wall buckled.
bugger n. 1 buggerer, sodomite. 2 chap, fellow, man; boy, lad, child, tot; Slang chiefly Brit geezer , US jerk; Colloq guy , Brit bloke, fool, idiot: He's a cute little bugger, isn't he? Who's that silly-looking bugger with Christina? --v. 3 Also, bugger up. ruin, destroy, botch, bungle, wreck; make a mess of, Colloq mess or screw up, Brit bollocks or ballocks up, balls up, make a balls-up of, cock up, US ball up, bollix up; Taboo fuck up: He's buggered the recording, so we'll have to start again at the beginning. Why does she bugger up everything I try to do? 4 bugger about or around. a fool about, waste time, dawdle, Colloq US lallygag or lollygag; Taboo fuck about or around: He buggers about the house all the time instead of looking for a job. Don't bugger about with my hi-fi. b cause complications for, create difficulties for: She pretends to be helping me, but she's just buggering me about. 5 bugger off. go away, depart, leave, clear off or out, Colloq make tracks, skedaddle, beat it, Slang piss off; Taboo fuck off: Oh, bugger off and leave me alone!
building n. edifice, structure, construction, erection: The building where I work is air-conditioned.
bulk n. 1 volume, magnitude, mass, enlargement, largeness, size: The sausage-makers add bread just for bulk. 2 majority: The bulk of the people voted for the proposal.
bulletin n. message, notice, communication, announcement, communiqu, dispatch or despatch, report, account, flash, news item, newsflash: And now, here's a bulletin from the centre court at Wimbledon.
bulwark n. 1 defence or US defense, safeguard, redoubt, bastion, buffer, barrier, rampart, fortification: A strong defence is the best bulwark against aggression from outside. --v. 2 defend, protect, shelter: Marnie's indifference to others bulwarks her against any feelings of contrition. bum n. 1 buttocks, posterior, hindquarters, fundament, behind, rump, bottom, behind, derrire, rear end, backside, seat, rear, Colloq Brit arse, US fanny, can, hinie, tush, tushy or tushie, tokus or tochis or tuchis, keister or keester, ass: Why don't you get off your fat bum and go out and get a job?! 2 tramp, panhandler, beggar, vagrant, loafer, drifter, vagabond, hobo, derelict, gypsy; Brit caird, tinker, traveller; US (shopping-)bag lady: Along the Bowery the doorways and pavements are strewn with bums. 3 improper, unjustified, false, trumped up, untrue, fabricated, made-up, bogus: That auto theft charge was a bum rap, but he still served 18 months. --adj. 4 bad, awful, unfair, dishonest, poor, rotten, Slang lousy, crummy: I still think you got a bum deal on that toaster. --v. 5 borrow, beg, sponge, Colloq scrounge, cadge, touch, put the touch on, US mooch, hit, hit up: Can I bum a cigarette from you?
bumpy adj. lumpy, rough, uneven, irregular, knobby, knobbly, pitted; potholed, bouncy, jarring, jerky, rutted: The skin on his forehead is a bit bumpy. This is the bumpiest road in the town.
bundle n. 1 bunch, collection, package, parcel, packet, pack; bale, sheaf; Archaic fardel: I have to leave this bundle at the laundry today. Bring this bundle of hay for the horse. --v. 2 gather (together), tie up (together), collect, pack, package: He bundled up all his belongings. 3 bundle off or out. dispatch or despatch, pack off, hustle or hurry off or away, send away or off; decamp, scurry off or away, Colloq Brit do a moonlight flit: We bundled Aunt Mary off home as soon as the storm subsided. That couple have bundled out of room 429.
buoy n. 1 (navigational or channel) mark or marker, float; nun (-buoy), can (-buoy), bell (buoy), gong (-buoy), siren, signal, mooring-buoy, spar-buoy, lollipop: Returning to port, always leave the red buoys to starboard. --v. 2 Often, buoy up. lift, raise, elevate, support, hearten, sustain, keep up: We sang songs to buoy up our spirits while the rescuers dug their way towards us.
burden n. 1 load, weight, gravamen; strain, pressure, trouble, onus, millstone, cross, albatross: The old man put down his burden. The burden of the evidence is against them. His feeling of guilt over her death in the crash was a terrible burden to bear. --v. 2 load, weigh down, saddle with, encumber; tax, oppress: The mules were heavily burdened with a month's supply of food. Don't burden me with your problems.
bureau n. 1 Brit (writing-)desk, US chest of drawers, chest, dresser, chifferobe, chiffonier: Simon has a beautiful antique bureau in his office. One of my cuff-links rolled under the bureau. 2 office, agency, department, division, section, subdivision, subsection, desk: I sent the form to the bureau a month ago, but I still don't have my visa.
burglar n. housebreaker, thief, robber; sneak-thief, cat burglar, US second-story or second-storey man: The burglars, remarkably, didn't take the most valuable paintings.
burlesque n. 1 caricature, lampoon, spoof, parody, satire, mockery, travesty, Colloq take-off; (grotesque) imitation, vulgarization, exaggeration: In the mid-19th century, burlesques drove pantomimes off the stage. 2 US striptease, strip show, nudie or girlie show: The old comedians insist that burlesque acts were an art form, but the audience went just for the girls. --v. 3 satirize, take off, lampoon, spoof, parody, caricature, travesty: Cervantes burlesqued the old romances in Don Quixote . --adj. 4 satirical, derisive, mock-heroic, mock-pathetic: She sang a burlesque opera based on Hamlet, called 'Omelette'.
burn v. 1 blaze, flame, flare, smoulder: A fire was burning on the hearth. 2 ignite, set on fire, fire, light, kindle, incinerate, Slang torch: He burnt the incriminating papers in the fireplace. 3 desire, yearn, wish, long, itch: He wrote 'Darling, I am burning to be with you tonight'. 4 waste, throw or fritter away, squander: Don't worry about Norman, he has money to burn. 5 overcook, blacken, char, singe: If you're not careful, you'll burn the toast again.
burrow n. 1 excavation, hole, warren, tunnel: The rabbit retreated to its burrow under the hedge. --v. 2 dig, delve, tunnel, bore; excavate: The larvae burrow into the wood where the birds can hear them moving about.
bury n. 1 inter, inhume, lay to rest: They buried her next to her husband as she had requested. 2 abandon, forget, consign to oblivion, eradicate, extirpate: The residents buried their differences and united to repel the town planners. 3 submerge (oneself), exile (oneself), plunge, become engrossed or absorbed: She buried herself in her book. 4 conceal, obscure, hide, cover up: The real story was by now completely buried beneath the mass of legend. 5 overwhelm, overcome, inundate: I'm so buried in work I can't take a holiday.
busy adj. 1 occupied, engaged, employed, involved: I can't talk to you now, I'm busy. 2 working, industrious, active, diligent; bustling, hectic, lively, hustling, energetic: Are you very busy at the office these days? The diamond district is certainly a busy place. 3 ornate, elaborate, detailed, complicated, complex, (over-)decorated, intricate, Baroque, Rococo: Some of the late Victorian architecture is far too busy for my taste. --v. 4 occupy, involve, employ, divert, absorb, engross: She has busied herself with charity work to get her mind off the tragedy.
butcher n. 1 murderer, slaughterer, killer, ripper, cutthroat, executioner, annihilator: That cold-blooded butcher dismembered his victims after strangling them. 2 destroyer, bungler, muddler: Look what that butcher of a tailor has done to my suit! --v. 3 slaughter, massacre, murder, cut or hack or hew to pieces, dismember, disembowel, exterminate, annihilate, kill, liquidate: The entire crew was butchered by the islanders. 4 botch, bungle, foul up, Colloq mess up, make a mess or hash of; Slang louse up, screw up, Brit bollocks or ballocks up, US bollix up; Taboo fuck up: He butchered the restoration of my antique cabinet.
butt v. 1 abut, join, meet: This wall butts up against my garage. 2 butt in or into. interfere, intrude, interrupt, Colloq US kibitz; meddle: Please let me finish a sentence without butting in. Don't butt into my affairs.
buttonhole v. 1 corner, detain, accost, importune, waylay: A reporter buttonholed one of the senators for details of the new tax bill. --n. 2 corsage, US boutonniere or boutonnire: He wore a rose for a buttonhole.
buxom adj. 1 hearty, healthy, vigorous, lusty, attractive, comely, plump, Colloq hefty: Sylvia was a buxom serving-wench at the Bugle Horn. 2 busty, bosomy, chesty, well-endowed, big-busted: The centrefolds in this magazine usually show quite buxom women.
buyer n. customer, consumer, client, purchaser: Is it likely that you will find many buyers of Basque dictionaries in this country?
by prep. 1 near, beside, next to, close to, alongside: I park my car by my house. 2 via, by way of, through; past: I go home by High Wycombe. 3 by means of, on: I often travel by train. 4 before, not later than, sooner than: I have to leave by Monday. 5 during, at: We travel only by night. --adv. 6 Often, close by. near, nearby, at hand, close, about, around, Literary nigh: When she is close by I get a tingling sensation. 7 past, nearby: When he walked by I nearly died. 8 away, aside: We put by a little for a rainy day.
bypass v. 1 avoid, evade, circumvent, sidestep, skirt, go or get round, detour; ignore, Slang give the go-by: I shall bypass many problems if I take that route. --n. 2 detour, alternative (way, route, etc.), alternate way or route: Take the bypass and avoid the town traffic.
byword n. proverb, proverbial saying, parable, maxim, adage, motto, slogan, apophthegm or apothegm, aphorism, catchword, catch-phrase: My byword has always been, Honesty is the best policy.
cabal n. 1 intrigue, plot, conspiracy, scheme: The cabal against Washington found supporters exclusively in the north. 2 junta or junto, clique, set, coterie, faction, band, league; unit, party, caucus, club; ring, gang: A cabal of artists was formed. --v. 3 intrigue, plot, conspire, connive, machinate: The barons began to sow dissension and to cabal against his succession.
cabin n. 1 hut, shack, cottage, cot, shanty; bungalow, lodge, chalet; Scots bothy: The old trapper lives in a cabin in the forest. You are welcome to come skiing with us and stay in our cabin. 2 stateroom, compartment, berth: We had a cabin on the starboard side.
cable n. 1 wire, line, rope, hawser, chain, mooring, strand, guy: The cable broke and we were set adrift. 2 telegram, wire, cablegram, radiogram, US Mailgram: Send a cable to Jones about the meeting. --v. 3 telegraph, wire; radio: Cable Jones to come at once.
cachet n. 1 stamp, feature, distinguishing mark, identification: The cachet of good taste is simplicity of design. 2 distinction, prominence, importance, prestige, dignity: Her new job doesn't pay much, but it has a certain cachet.
cadence n. measure, beat, rhythm, tempo, accent, pulse, metre, lilt, swing: The snare drum marked the cadence for the marching band.
cage n. 1 crate, enclosure, pen, pound, coop, hutch: He keeps rooks in a cage. --v. 2 Also, cage up or in. confine, enclose, pen, impound, shut up, or in, coop (up), imprison; restrict, restrain, hem in: They keep the kitten caged like a wild animal. I don't like to stay caged up in my office all day.
cajolery n. wheedling, coaxing, blandishment, beguilement, jollying, persuasion, seduction, inveigling, inveiglement, Colloq soft soap, buttering-up, sweet talk: She uses cajolery rather than threats to get what she wants.
calamitous adj. distressful, dire, tragic, disastrous, destructive, awful, devastating, fatal, deadly, pernicious, cataclysmic, catastrophic, ruinous, dreadful, terrible: They seemed unaware of the calamitous consequences of what they were doing to the environment.
calculate v. compute, reckon, add up, assess, evaluate, count, figure (out), estimate, gauge, determine, ascertain, work out: Bradley was able to calculate the velocity of light. They calculated where the sun would come up at the equinox and built their temple accordingly.
calculating adj. shrewd, conniving, crafty, sly, scheming, designing, Machiavellian, manipulative, canny, contriving: She is a calculating woman, who knows what she wants and manoeuvres people to help her get it.
calculator n. computer, adding machine; abacus: According to my calculator, the answer should be 7
calibrate v. adjust, graduate; standardize: This balance has been dropped on the floor, and you'll have to calibrate it again.
call v. 1 shout, cry (out), hail, yell, roar, bellow, call out, Colloq holler: I heard someone calling my name. 2 name, designate, denote, denominate, term, style, nickname, label, title, entitle, tag, identify, dub, christen, baptize: My real name is Angus, but they call me Scotty. A person from Glasgow is called a Glaswegian. 3 call up, telephone, phone, ring (up), dial, Colloq buzz: As it's her birthday, I must call my mother in Australia. Don't call us, we'll call you. 4 summon, invite, assemble, convoke, convene, bid, gather, collect, muster, rally: From the minaret, the muezzin was calling the faithful to prayer. Many are called but few are chosen. 5 visit, attend; call in; call on: My great aunt Frederica came to call last Sunday. 6 awake, awaken, wake up, rouse, Colloq Brit knock up: Please call me at six. 7 call down. a appeal to, invoke, petition, request, entreat, supplicate: He called down the wrath of God on the Philistines. b reprimand, chastise, castigate, upbraid, scold, reprove, rebuke: He was called down for having left the house after curfew. 8 call for. a demand, request, ask for, order, require, claim: The people in room 429 have called for clean towels. The problem calls for your urgent attention. b pick up, fetch, come for, get, accompany, Colloq collect: I'll call for you at seven o'clock. 9 call forth. summon, invoke, draw on or upon, evoke; elicit, inspire: Susan called forth all her courage and faced her accusers. He failed to call forth much enthusiasm in his listeners. 10 call on or upon. a request of, entreat, ask, address; apostrophize: The teacher called on me today to recite Hamlet's soliloquy. b supplicate, apostrophize, appeal to: He called on olus, god of the winds, for a fair breeze to carry his ship home. c visit: The vicar called on us when we first moved in. 11 call off. cancel; discontinue; postpone: The picnic has been called off because of rain. 12 call up. a summon, enlist, recruit, conscript, US draft: Father was called up as soon as war was declared. b call, telephone, phone, ring (up): Call me up sometime. --n. 13 shout, cry, yell, whoop, Colloq holler: I'll be out in the garden, so give me a call if you want me. 14 summons, invitation, bidding, notice, notification, order, request, demand, command; telephone call, phone call, Brit ring; Colloq tinkle: She received a call to report at once for duty. 15 reason, justification, cause, need, occasion, right, excuse; requirement: You have no call to be abusive, regardless of what you think about him. 16 on call. ready, on duty, standing by, on stand-by, awaiting orders: They had to remain on call from midnight till eight o'clock. 17 within call. within earshot or hearing or (easy) reach: Please stay within call in case I need you.
callous adj. hardened, thick-skinned, unfeeling, uncaring, insensible, insensitive, hard, hard-hearted, tough, hardbitten, cold, cold-hearted, heartless, indifferent, unsympathetic, apathetic, Colloq hard-boiled, hard-nosed: It was callous of Gerry to go off to the snooker club right after the funeral.
calm n. 1 quiet, stillness, tranquillity, serenity, hush, peace, peacefulness: A storm raged outside, but in the harbour was a breathless calm. 2 calmness, composure, placidity, placidness, peace, repose, sang-froid, coolness, self-control, equanimity, self-possession: The calm exhibited by the passengers during the hijacking was admirable. --adj. 3 quiet, still, tranquil, serene, peaceful, balmy, halcyon, mild, undisturbed, unagitated, placid, pacific; motionless, smooth, even; windless: The sea is never calm in the same sense as a mountain lake. 4 composed, cool, cool-headed, self-controlled, impassive, dispassionate, unmoved, unruffled, serene, tranquil, sedate, staid, stoical, Colloq together: She remained calm while the others panicked. --v. 5 Also, calm down. quiet, quieten, still, soothe, hush, lull, pacify; mollify, appease, placate, become or make quiet or pacified or less agitated, Colloq cool off or down: The arbitrator did his best to calm the two litigants by suggesting a compromise. After everyone had calmed down, the speaker continued.
camp n. 1 camping-ground, camp-ground, bivouac, encampment, camp-site; settlement; camping-site, Brit caravan site: The name 'Chester' derives from Latin castrum, meaning 'camp', for the city was originally the site of a Roman camp. Is there a camp where we can stay overnight? 2 faction, set, coterie, clique, group, party, body: On this issue, the politicians are divided into two camps. --v. 3 encamp, pitch camp, tent: Our family likes to go camping in the mountains during the summer. 4 lodge, bivouac, settle: The platoon camped by the river. 5 camp out. Slang crash: Mind if I camp out in your pad tonight?
campaign n. 1 operation(s), manoeuvre(s), crusade, action; drive, offensive, push, effort; struggle: Napoleon's Russian campaign ended in disaster. Our next sales campaign will be aimed at teenagers. 2 competition, contest, rivalry, race: Presidential campaigns last for more than a year. --v. 3 run, electioneer, compete, Brit stand; US and Canadian stump; Colloq throw or toss one's hat in the ring: Next week the Labour candidate will campaign in Yorkshire.
cancellation n. 1 cancelling, annulment, nullification, rescinding, voiding, rescission, revocation, abolition, abandonment, withdrawal, abrogation; repeal: We found a hotel room in the end because of a late cancellation. 2 invalidation, revocation, abolition, discontinuance, termination, suppression: If you fail to pay the premium, the policy is subject to cancellation. 3 elimination, abolition; stoppage, cessation: Owing to the storm, some trains are subject to cancellation.
candidate n. aspirant, seeker, office-seeker, runner, nominee; applicant, entrant; prospect, possibility: There are quite a few candidates for the post.
candy n. sweet(s), bon-bon(s), sweetmeat(s), confectionery: Eating candy can be bad for your teeth.
cant n. 1 hypocrisy, insincerity, sham, pretence, humbug, sanctimony, sanctimoniousness, lip-service, affectedness, pretension: He wasn't really enthusiastic - all that talk was just cant. 2 jargon, shop, shop-talk, argot, vernacular, slang, dialect, patois, Creole, pidgin, gobbledegook or gobbledygook, Colloq lingo: The criminals use a cant not understood by those outside their fraternity.
canvass v. 1 solicit, electioneer, campaign, poll, US and Canadian stump: The candidates will be canvassing in farming areas next week. 2 survey, poll, study, analyse, examine, investigate, interview, question: The statisticians are not satisfied that enough women were canvassed to provide an accurate sample. --n. 3 solicitation, campaign: The party's canvass of rural areas for new supporters was not very successful. 4 survey, study, investigation, poll, examination, tally: A canvass of editors shows they have a conservative view of the language. canyon n. gorge, ravine, gully or gulley, pass, defile, Brit dialect gill or ghyll, US and Canadian coule, gulch; US gap, arroyo: The canyon created by the river is more than a thousand feet deep.
capability n. ability, power, potential, capacity, means, faculty, wherewithal; talent, proficiency, aptitude, adeptness, skill, competence: Deirdre has the capability to be first in her form.
capacity n. 1 volume, content, size, dimensions; room, space: What is the capacity of this bottle in litres? The car is of sufficient capacity to hold only four adults. 2 potential, ability, capability, competence, intelligence, wit, brain(s), talent, aptitude, acumen, understanding, sense, judgement, perspicacity, perceptiveness, perception, mother wit, intellect, genius, skill, gift, faculty, power, potential, Colloq chiefly US right stuff, the goods: They don't yet have the capacity to absorb advanced theory. 3 position, condition, character, place, post, role, job, office, duty, responsibility, province, sphere, function; Law competency, qualification: She has every right to sign cheques in her capacity as director.
cape n. mantle, shawl, stole, cloak: His black cape reached to the floor.
capital n. 1 head, top, crown, cap: The column was surmounted by a finely carved capital. 2 seat (of government): Winnipeg is the capital of Manitoba. 3 money, assets, funds, finance(s), cash, wherewithal; wealth, means, property, resources, savings, principal: My capital is invested in land at the moment. 4 majuscule, upper case, large letter, initial, Colloq cap: The chapter titles should be set in capitals. --adj. 5 chief, main, major, important, cardinal, central, principal, prime, primary, paramount, pre-eminent, foremost, leading: Our capital responsibility is to ensure the passengers' safety. 6 first-class, first-rate, excellent, superior, matchless, peerless, choice, select, outstanding, fine, superb, splendid, marvellous, extraordinary, Colloq smashing, great, super, Brit brill, Old-fashioned topping, top-hole, ripping, ripsnorting: Eating out tonight was a capital idea.
capricious adj. whimsical, erratic, flighty, fickle, mercurial, unsteady, variable, unstable, wayward, unpredictable, undependable, changeable, impulsive, crotchety, quirky, unreliable, inconstant, fanciful, wanton: His decisions are capricious and not based on sound judgement. The weather in March is capricious: as Mark Twain said, if you don't like it, just wait five minutes.
captivate v. enthral or US enthrall, enslave, fascinate, hypnotize, entrance, beguile, charm, enamour, enchant, bewitch, enrapture, dazzle, infatuate, attract, allure, seduce, win: Her beauty captivated film-goers everywhere.
captivity n. confinement, imprisonment, internment, detention, custody, incarceration, restraint; bondage, slavery, thraldom or US also thralldom, enslavement, servitude; Archaic durance: Some wild creatures do not survive in captivity. Entire populations of conquered territories were taken into captivity in ancient times.
car n. 1 (motor) vehicle, motor car, automobile, passenger car, Old-fashioned or slang motor; Chiefly US auto; Colloq jalopy, heap, pile, crate, machine, buggy, transport; Slang wheels: Borrow a car and drive down for the weekend. 2 (railway) carriage: The body was found in a sleeping car of the Orient Express.
cardinal adj. important, chief, key, special, main, central, principal, prime, primary, essential, necessary, fundamental; supreme, paramount, highest, first, foremost, leading, pre-eminent: The cardinal virtues are justice, prudence, temperance, and fortitude, to which some writers add faith, hope, and charity.
careen v. heel over, keel over; US loosely career, sway, tip, pitch, veer, swerve, lurch: We hauled out the boat, careened her, and proceeded to caulk her seams.
carefree adj. nonchalant, easy, easygoing, insouciant, light-hearted, blithe, happy-go-lucky, breezy, airy; blas, indifferent, unconcerned, unworried, trouble-free, worry-free, contented, happy: Till he graduated from university, he had lived an entirely carefree life.
careless adj. 1 unconcerned, untroubled, unworried, casual, indifferent, heedless, thoughtless, inconsiderate, uncaring, devil-may-care, irresponsible, cursory, lackadaisical, perfunctory: No one could approve of the careless way he treats his family. 2 inattentive, negligent, thoughtless, absent-minded, neglectful, remiss; unobservant, unthinking, imprudent, unmindful, incautious, unwary, reckless, slapdash, rash: Many of the errors come from being careless. 3 inaccurate, imprecise, inexact, incorrect, wrong, error-ridden, erroneous, Colloq sloppy: You won't get a good mark for such a careless paper. 4 unstudied, ingenuous, artless, casual, nonchalant: I dislike his careless way of dressing, but it does show some style.
cargo n. shipment, consignment, shipload, truckload, wagon-load, load, trainload, US carload; freight, goods, merchandise: The cargo of rifles was delivered to the warehouse. The ship was lost with all its cargo.
carnage n. slaughter, butchery, massacre, blood bath, holocaust, killing, Shoah, Churban or Hurban: The battle was fought with much carnage on both sides.
carouse v. 1 make merry, revel, Colloq party, pub-crawl, make whoopee, go on a bender or tear or binge or toot, paint the town red, binge, booze: After the cup final, we all caroused till the wee hours. --n. 2 revel, spree, fling, wassail, carousal, drunk, bacchanal, Colloq binge, bender, booze, boozer, Brit knees-up, US tear, toot: They go on a carouse on Burns Night every year, then need a day to sleep it off.
carriage n. 1 (railway) coach, US car: We moved our belongings into the next carriage. 2 bearing, mien, air, manner, deportment, conduct, demeanour, attitude, posture, stance, presence, behaviour, comportment: His upright carriage immediately identified him as a military man. 3 freight, freightage, transportation, cartage, shipping; postage: Carriage is free within mainland Britain.
carry v. 1 transport, convey, bear, lug, drag, cart, move, Colloq tote, Slang US schlep: He shouldn't carry such heavy packages at his age. 2 conduct, convey, lead, take, transport, transfer, transmit: This cable carries the power to the town. 3 drive, impel, conduct, convey, take, move: He travelled aimlessly, wherever the wind carried his ship. 4 support, maintain, finance: I had a wife and four children and was unable to carry my brother's family as well. 5 bear, hold up, uphold, maintain: Despite her troubles, she carried her head high. 6 win, take, sweep, capture, gain, secure: She carried the election easily. 7 stock, sell, offer; display: We don't carry purple shoes in this shop, Madam. 8 broadcast, disseminate, offer, release; communicate, present, read, report, announce; give: The news is carried on this station every night at nine. 9 carry away. transport, excite, enrapture, delight: He was quite carried away by her attentions. 10 carry off. a win, gain, capture, secure: She managed to carry off the first prize for the third year running. b abscond with, kidnap, take, purloin, Colloq Brit pinch, nick: I'm afraid that some of your chickens have been carried off by a fox. c accomplish, perform, effect, do, succeed, handle or manage successfully, bring off, carry out: We carried off the raid without loss of a single man. d kill, be or cause the death of, cause to die: He was carried off by yellow fever in his eightieth year. 11 carry on. a continue, proceed, go on, persist, keep on or at, persevere: Don't stop just carry on with what you were doing. b manage, conduct, operate: Despite the fire, we are carrying on our business as usual. c misbehave, Colloq act up, fool around, Brit play up: The children are carrying on so, I can't get any work done. 12 carry out or through. perform, effect, implement, complete, execute, accomplish, continue, conclude: Henry is carrying out his father's wishes according to the terms of his will.
carte blanche n. licence, permission, sanction, free rein, authority, discretion: She was given carte blanche to spend the money any way she wished.
case n. 1 instance, example, event, occurrence; happening, occasion, circumstance, state, situation: In a recent case a farmer was attacked by a man-eating tiger. Holmes is investigating a case of a missing necklace. 2 action, suit, lawsuit, dispute; cause: I lost my case. 3 patient, invalid, victim: Four new cases were admitted to the hospital yesterday. 4 specimen, instance, example: Howard is an odd case, isn't he? 5 in any case. in any event, come what may, at all events, anyhow, anyway: In any case, your decision won't affect me. 6 in case. a lest, for fear that: He was worried in case his wife found out where he had been. b if, in the event that, if it happens or proves or turns out that, if it should happen or prove or turn out that: In case you were thinking of leaving, remember that we have your car keys. 7 in case of. in the event of; for fear of: In case of fire, you must use the staircase. We insured the house in case of fire. 8 the case. the fact, the actuality, the truth, the reality, what really happened or took place: She said he was drunk, but that's not the case.
cash n. 1 money, currency, bills, notes, banknotes, change, hard cash or money, specie, coin of the realm, legal tender, Slang moolah, dough, bread, loot, spondulicks or spondulix, Brit lolly, ready, readies, US scratch, gelt, mazuma: The shop accepts only cash, no charge cards. --v. 2 Also, cash in. change, sell, liquidate, exchange; realize: She cashed some bonds to pay off the overdraft.
cast n. 1 throw, toss, pitch, shy, lob, thrust, chuck: In his next cast, the bowler lightly struck the jack. 2 dramatis personae, actors and actresses, players, performers, troupe, company: We invited the cast to a party after the show. 3 form, shape, mould; formation, formulation, arrangement: She can appreciate the turn of the phrase, the happy cast and flow of the sentence. 4 model, casting, mould; stamp, type: The Ming vase was copied from a cast. There are not many men of the cast of Crocker. 5 twist, turn, irregularity, warp; squint: The mare had a cast in her gallop. The pirate had a cast in his left eye. 6 turn, inclination, bent, hint, touch; tinge, tint, colouring: He has a melancholy cast of mind. --v. 7 throw, toss, pitch, fling, sling, hurl, dash, send, Colloq chuck, shy: She tore off the gold necklace and cast it into the lake. 8 assign, delegate, appoint, designate, name, nominate, choose, pick, select: He has cast me as the villain in his little drama. 9 form, mould, found: The king's death-mask, cast in plaster, was on the floor of the tomb. 10 cast about for. search for, look for, seek: He was casting about for an excuse to avoid going to the Fordyces' for dinner. 11 cast aside. reject, discard, cast or throw away or out, get rid of: The expensive toys had been cast aside and the children were playing with the boxes and wrappings. 12 cast away. maroon, shipwreck: Jim O'Shea was cast away upon an Indian isle. 13 cast off. throw off, shed, doff: One's upbringing cannot be cast off like an old overcoat. 14 cast out. expel, drive out, throw out, evict, eject, oust, exile, remove, cast aside: She was cast out of the house by her mother, who had married a biker.
caste n. (social) class, rank, order, level, stratum, standing, position, station, status, estate: The women of her caste practised suttee.
castle n. 1 fortress, stronghold, citadel: The king moved to Windsor Castle during the winter. 2 mansion, palace, manor-house, hall, chteau: Mr Mooney lives alone in his castle and has nothing to do with his neighbours.
casualty n. 1 disaster, catastrophe, calamity, accident, mischance, misadventure, mishap: The company insures against casualties at sea. 2 a victim, fatality, Colloq statistic: I'm afraid that Jeff was a casualty of last year's cut in personnel. She was only one of thousands of casualties of the earthquake. b Usually, casualties. Chiefly military wounded, injured, missing, missing in action, dead, fatalities, US MIA(s), body count: The casualties were mounting.
catch v. 1 capture, seize, apprehend, take or get (hold of), grab, grip, grasp, take captive, hold, arrest, take prisoner, Colloq nab, pinch, collar, Brit nick: The police caught him when he returned to the scene of the crime. 2 trap, ensnare, entrap, snare, net, bag, hook, round up, corral: We caught three trout this morning. I caught all the horses that had broken through the fence. 3 take, get on or on to, board: You can catch the London train at Aylesbury. 4 surprise, discover, find: They fired him after catching him with his hand in the till. 5 be seized or taken hold of by or with, come down with, be afflicted by or with, contract, get, suffer from: You'll catch a cold if you don't wear a hat. 6 strike, hit, deliver, fetch, box: She caught him a great blow on the ear and he went down. 7 tangle, become entangled or stuck or trapped or hooked: His foot caught in the stirrup when he fell, and he was dragged along. 8 restrain, stop, check, curb: She caught herself before telling the police where the thief was hiding. 9 intercept, grab, seize, snatch: He caught the ball before it touched the ground. 10 understand, see, comprehend, grasp, apprehend, fathom, perceive, discern, follow, take in, gather, Colloq figure out, get, catch on (to), get the drift (of), Brit twig: I didn't quite catch what you said - please can you repeat it? 11 captivate, charm, bewitch, enchant, fascinate, seduce, attract, entice, allure: She knows how to use her charms to catch a man. 12 attract, draw: A very slight movement caught my eye. 13 catch on. a understand, grasp, see (through), comprehend, get (it), Brit twig: I didn't catch on to what she planned to do it till it was too late. The joke's on you and you still don't catch on, do you? b take hold, succeed, become popular or fashionable: Do you think the hula hoop will catch on again? 14 catch up. a absorb, involve, enthrall, immerse: He was completely caught up in the plot of the new novel. b reach, overtake, overhaul: I finally caught up with her as she neared the house. --n. 15 capture, take, bag, prize, trophy: The catch of the day was a 20-pound pike. 16 acquisition; conquest: She was considered quite a catch. 17 clasp, hook, pin, clip, fastening, fastener: The catch on the necklace opened and pearls spilt all over the floor. 18 trick, disadvantage, hitch, snag, fly in the ointment, catch-22, trap, problem, drawback , Colloq US hooker: The first book is free, but the catch is that you have to buy four more at the regular price.
categorical adj. direct, explicit, express, unconditional, firm, positive, unreserved, unrestricted, absolute, outright, downright, unequivocal, unambiguous, specific; emphatic, unqualified, authoritative, dogmatic, Technical apodeictic or apodictic: His denial was clear and categorical.
category n. class, classification, type, sort, kind, variety, group, grouping, listing, rank, ranking, list, grade, department, division, section, sector, area, sphere; head, heading: Into which category would you put the partially disabled?
catholic adj. universal, general, inclusive, all-inclusive, broad, wide, comprehensive, widespread, all-embracing, eclectic, liberal: Her musical tastes are catholic - they range from Bach to Berry (Chuck, that is).
cause n. 1 origin, occasion, source, root, genesis, agent, prime mover, well-spring: The cause of the train crash is not yet known. 2 originator, creator, producer, agent, agency: His indecision was the cause of many of our problems. 3 ground or grounds, justification, reason, basis, call, motive: You have no cause to be dissatisfied. 4 case, matter, issue, concern; movement, undertaking; ideal, belief: We appealed the miners' cause to the high court. --v. 5 make, induce: What causes hot air to rise? 6 effect, bring on or about, give rise to, result in, produce, create, precipitate, occasion, lead to, induce, generate, provoke, promote; engender; motivate, compel: Overeating causes indigestion.
caution n. 1 warning, admonition, admonishment, caveat, monition, advice, counsel, injunction: A word of caution is needed before you go ahead. 2 wariness, prudence, care, vigilance, forethought, heed, watchfulness, alertness, circumspection, discretion: Drivers should exercise extra caution in bad weather. --v. 3 warn, admonish, forewarn, tip (off); advise, counsel: Some employees had to be cautioned about arriving on time.
cave n. 1 cavern, grotto, hollow, hole, cavity, den: In the cave were prehistoric wall paintings. --v. 2 cave in. a collapse, break down, give way, subside, fall in or inwards: The earthquake caused the walls of the house to cave in. b yield, submit, give way; surrender; Colloq buckle, knuckle under: After eight hours of questioning, he caved in and told them everything.
cavity n. pit, hole, hollow, opening, crater, gap; space: The limestone is marked with a pattern of cavities. Vowel sounds resonate in the oral cavity.
cease v. 1 stop, end, finish, leave off, terminate, halt, discontinue, desist (from), break off (from), refrain (from): Will that noise never cease? --n. 2 without cease. ceaselessly, endlessly, unendingly, incessantly, interminably, continuously, continually, constantly, ad infinitum, infinitely, perpetually, forever, eternally, everlastingly, non-stop, unremittingly: Sisyphus was condemned to roll his burden uphill without cease.
celebrant n. officiant, official; priest: The celebrant at High Mass was the archbishop.
celebrated adj. famous, renowned, well-known, famed, prominent, noted, eminent, noteworthy, distinguished, illustrious, acclaimed: Their son became a celebrated brain surgeon.
celebrity n. 1 renown, fame, repute, reputation, prominence, eminence, distinction, prestige, famousness, popularity, notability, stardom; notoriety: Dr Johnson was not enriched in proportion to his celebrity. 2 notable, dignitary, star, luminary, toast of the town, personage, name, personality, superstar: The hotel lobby was packed with celebrities from show business.
celibacy n. 1 bachelorhood, spinsterhood, singleness: People who say they enjoy celibacy may simply have not met the right partner. 2 chastity, virginity, continence, (self-)restraint, abstinence, purity: They have to take a vow of celibacy before entering the priesthood.
cell n. chamber, room, apartment, cubicle; stall: As a friar, he lived in a small, plain cell for most of his life.
cement n. 1 mortar, bond, glue, gum, paste, solder; adhesive: You'll need a special kind of cement to stick metal to glass. --v. 2 stick, glue, paste, solder, weld, braze, bond; join, bind, combine, unite; cohere, hold, cling, adhere: First cement the tiles to the wall. The ashes and cinders cement readily into a compact mass.
centre n. 1 middle, core, heart; nucleus, focal point, hub, pivot, nave; mid-point: He stood in the centre of the road. We journeyed to the centre of the earth. The tower is at the centre of the market square. The amount to be paid was at the centre of the controversy. Mark the centre of the line. --v. 2 focus, converge, meet, concentrate, cluster: The business of the meeting centred on the nomination of a chairperson. All my hopes were centred on getting the job as supervisor.
ceremonious adj. 1 ceremonial, formal, dignified, solemn, Colloq stuffy, stiff, starchy: There are many ceremonious procedures involved in a coronation. 2 courtly, courteous, polite, civil, correct, proper, conventional, punctilious, careful: He entered the room and made a ceremonious bow.
certain adj. 1 determined, set, fixed, predetermined, decided, settled, firm, stable, invariable, established, standard, constant, unchanging, steady, unfluctuating, non-fluctuating, traditional: He agreed to pay a certain yearly rent. She met him there every day at a certain time. 2 sure, unerring, definite, dependable, trustworthy, unfailing, infallible, reliable, assured, guaranteed: How do you know that the dividend is certain? 3 sure, inevitable, inescapable, destined, predestined, ineluctable, inexorable, unavoidable, definite, firm; unchanging, changeless, infallible, permanent, Colloq on the cards, a sure thing, US in the cards: It is not always certain that justice will triumph. Nothing is certain but death and taxes. 4 indubitable, indisputable, undisputed, undoubted, sure, doubtless, unequivocal, incontestable, undeniable, incontrovertible, absolute, irrefutable, unquestionable, unquestioned, unarguable, valid: It is certain only that we exist, according to Descartes. 5 confident; assured, sure, positive, definite: I am certain that she did not steal the money. 6 specific, particular, definite; unnamed, unspecified, non-specified, non-specific: He gave us certain information which we now have reason to doubt.
certify v. 1 confirm, attest (to), verify, testify (to), affirm, aver, asseverate, corroborate, substantiate, endorse, guarantee, warrant; swear (to), bear witness (to), vouchsafe, vouch (for): I will certify the accuracy of the report. She certified that she was the owner of the car. 2 declare, classify, establish, confirm: The magistrate certified the man insane.
chaff n. 1 banter, raillery, ridicule, badinage, joking, teasing, twitting, Colloq kidding, ragging, Chiefly US and Canadian joshing: After the speech, he had to put up with a lot of good-natured chaff from the audience. --v. 2 banter, tease, twit, rail at, Colloq kid, rag, Chiefly US and Canadian josh: When he was in the navy, his family chaffed him for having a girl in every port.
chair n. 1 seat, armchair, stool, bench, easy chair, rocking-chair: He offered me a chair so I sat down. 2 throne, bench, position, cathedra, authority; professorship, directorship: Sue has been offered a chair on the board. 3 chairperson, chairman, chairwoman, presiding officer, leader, moderator: The chair ruled on the matter after due consideration. --v. 4 preside, lead, govern, moderate, run, direct, manage, oversee: Katherine will chair the meetings during the absence of the president.
chamber n. 1 assembly, body, legislature, judicature, house, congress, judiciary, senate, diet; consortium: She is entitled to sit in the Upper Chamber. 2 meeting-hall, reception room, assembly room: The council chamber was packed with people. 3 compartment, niche, nook, cavity: We hid the gold in a small chamber in the cave. 4 room, apartment; bedroom, bedchamber: On the first floor are the magnificent royal chambers.
chance n. 1 fortune, luck, fate: We met, as chance would have it, at the supermarket. Life is but a game of chance for those who cannot control their destiny. 2 opportunity, time, turn; occasion: You have had your chance to return the money, now it is too late. 3 Also, chances. likelihood, probability, prospect, odds, certainty, predictability; conceivability, possibility: Chances are that he'll be late. The chance of winning the lottery is pretty remote. 4 Also, chances. risk, speculation, gamble: You are taking a chance going out there without a weapon. I'll take my chances. 5 by chance. a accidentally, unintentionally, inadvertently: By chance the witness saw him talking to the suspect. b perhaps, maybe, possibly, conceivably: Have you by chance a match? --adj. 6 casual, incidental, accidental, unintentional, inadvertent; unplanned, unpremeditated, unexpected, unforeseen; unlooked-for: The affair began with a chance meeting at a pub. --v. 7 happen; occur, come to pass, take place, come about; befall, betide: We chanced to see him jogging in the park. It chanced that a passer-by called the police. 8 risk, hazard; imperil, endanger, jeopardize, stake, bet, wager: Few would chance severe penalties or jail by lying on a tax return. Don't chance everything you've worked for!
changeable adj. 1 variable, mutable, protean, inconstant, unstable, unsettled, shifting, uncertain, irregular, uneven, unpredictable, labile, capricious, erratic, fickle, unreliable, undependable, mercurial, volatile: The weather has been changeable for the past week. 2 alterable, modifiable, transformable, convertible: Their meeting-places were changeable and known only to them.
channel n. 1 watercourse, canal, waterway, ditch, aqueduct, sluice, trench, trough, gutter, moat; river-bed, stream-bed: The engineers dug a channel to drain the swamp. 2 strait, narrows, neck: The English Channel connects the North Sea with the Atlantic Ocean. 3 furrow, groove, flute: The channels cut into this column are not straight. 4 course, means, way, approach, avenue, medium, path, artery, conduit: We have to open a new channel of communication with the terrorists. --v. 5 direct, convey, pass, guide, lead, conduct: Their grievances are being channelled through the information officer.
chaos n. formlessness, disorder, confusion; pandemonium, bedlam, turmoil, tumult; entropy: The universe arose out of chaos. If you want to see chaos, look in any teenager's bedroom. There was chaos as the bank closed its doors and ceased trading.
chap n. fellow, lad, man, boy, Colloq guy, geezer, customer, gink, Brit bloke, Australian cove, US buddy, gazabo or gazebo; Old-fashioned Brit (old) egg, (old) bean, (old) crumpet, (old) boy; Slang US bozo: I went with some of the chaps from the club.
characteristic adj. 1 typical, representative; emblematic, symbolic, distinctive, idiosyncratic, symptomatic: How characteristic it is of them to refuse to go to the dance! These subjects are characteristic of the early Impressionists. --n. 2 mark, trait, attribute, feature, quality, property, peculiarity, idiosyncrasy, character, earmark: It is a characteristic of bees to swarm.
charade n. travesty, absurdity, mockery, farce, parody: He has made a charade of what could have been a serious relationship.
charitable adj. 1 generous, liberal, bountiful, munificent, unselfish, open-handed, magnanimous, philanthropic, public-spirited, unsparing, eleemosynary: Despite her income, Irena has always been most charitable when it comes to worthwhile causes. 2 well-disposed, kindly, kind, beneficent, benevolent, well-wishing, lenient, tolerant, forgiving, indulgent, understanding, compassionate, humane, sympathetic, considerate, well-meaning, good: They took a charitable view of the matter and decided not to press charges.
charm n. 1 amulet, talisman, fetish, rabbit's foot, good-luck piece: She wears a charm to ward off evil spirits. 2 attractiveness, appeal, fascination, allure, magnetism, desirability, elegance, urbanity, sophistication, sophisticatedness, suavity, grace, refinement, cultivatedness, cultivation, culture, polish; magic, enchantment, spell, sorcery: To Diderot we go not for charm of style but for a store of fertile ideas. To get ahead Colin relies more on his charm than on his ability. 3 charms. beauty, attractiveness, pulchritude, prettiness, handsomeness, appeal, allure, magnetism, pull, draw: For all her charm, I would not trust her one inch. 4 like a charm. successfully, perfectly, miraculously, marvellously, extraordinarily, especially well: His appeal to their egos worked like a charm. --v. 5 influence, control, subdue, bind, put a spell on, bewitch, enchant, seduce, hypnotize, mesmerize, enthral or US enthrall, captivate, delight, fascinate, Literary enrapture: He charmed them with some tale and they gave him their money. 6 overcome, subdue, calm, soothe, allay, assuage, hypnotize, mesmerize: Music is said to have qualities capable of charming savages.
charmer n. enchanter, enchantress, sorcerer, sorceress, magician; vamp, siren, Circe, Cleopatra, Lorelei, temptress, seductress; seducer, Romeo, Valentino, Don Juan, Lothario, Casanova, lady-killer, ladies' man; flatterer; smooth talker, Colloq (big-time) operator, con artist or man, Old-fashioned smoothie, wolf: Charlotte has run off with some charmer she met at a party.
charter n. 1 document, contract, compact, agreement, covenant: This year we again commemorate the signing of the United Nations charter. 2 permit, permission, licence or US license, authority, franchise, right, privilege, concession: He was given an exclusive charter to export furs in 1679. 3 lease, contract: We have the yacht under charter for the summer. --v. 4 license, authorize, document, commission, approve, certify, franchise, qualify; recognize: He is a chartered accountant, she a chartered surveyor. 5 let, lease, rent, hire, engage, contract: I chartered the sloop for three weeks.
chaste adj. 1 pure, virginal, virgin, celibate, abstinent, continent, virtuous, undefiled, stainless, unstained, unsullied, unblemished, decent, clean, good, wholesome, moral: Only a knight who was wholly chaste would find the Grail. 2 subdued, severe, restrained, unadorned, austere, unembellished, simple, pure, undecorated, clean: In some respects, modern architecture emulates the chaste style of the ancient Egyptians.
chastise v. punish, beat, thrash, belabour or US belabor, spank, whip, flog, scourge, birch, cane; discipline, chasten, correct, censure, berate, scold: Pupils are not being chastised as in the old days.
chat n. 1 conversation, colloquy, talk, small talk, gossip, palaver, chit-chat, tte--tte, heart-to-heart, Colloq gab, Chiefly Brit chin-wag, confab, Brit witter, natter, US and Canadian rap, gabfest, bull session: We'd get together for a chat every now and then. --v. 2 converse, gossip, talk, chit-chat, Colloq gab, chew the fat or the rag, jaw, Brit witter, natter; Slang US and Canadian rap, bullshit: We were just chatting when I smelt something burning. 3 Brit chat up. flirt or dally with, persuade, induce, prevail upon, tempt, lure, entice, inveigle, seduce, proposition: Rick chats up every girl he meets.
cheap adj. 1 inexpensive, low-priced, bargain-priced, low-cost, sale-priced, cut-price, reasonable; economy, budget(-priced): He was chewing on a cheap cigar. Everything used to be a lot cheaper when I was younger. 2 economical; reduced: Eggs are cheaper by the dozen. 3 shoddy, base, shabby, tawdry, sleazy, tatty, seedy; inferior, low-grade, poor, second-rate, trashy, worthless, Brit twopenny or tuppenny; Colloq tacky, Brit tinpot, Slang US two-bit, lousy, chintzy: Those cheap pictures ruin the look of the place. 4 stingy, miserly, penurious, niggardly, penny-pinching, cheese-paring, frugal, tight, tight-fisted, Scrooge-like, skinflinty: That cheap brother of yours wouldn't give even a penny to a beggar. --adv. 5 inexpensively, cheaply, for a song, Brit for twopence or tuppence: You can buy those cheap from any street vendor. 6 cheaply, easily, reasonably, for a song, Brit for twopence or tuppence: She has sold cheap that which she holds most dear. --n. 7 on the cheap. inexpensively, reasonably, cheaply, at or below cost, for a song, Brit for twopence or tuppence; Slang for peanuts: We buy these watches on the cheap and sell them to tourists.
check v. 1 stop, arrest, stay, halt, obstruct, block, limit; retard, slow, brake, curb, hinder, hamper, impede, thwart: They are trying to check the spread of the disease in West Africa. 2 restrain, control, repress, stay, inhibit, contain, curb, restrict: The animal population is checked only by availability of food. 3 authenticate, verify, confirm, substantiate, validate, corroborate, check into, check out, check up on: Please check his story to make sure he's not lying. 4 enquire about or after or into, check into, check (up) on, examine, investigate, inspect, make sure of, verify, monitor, test, study, scrutinize: You'd best check the temperature in the kiln. 5 correspond, coincide, agree, jibe, tally, conform, check out, fit, mesh; compare: His alibi doesn't check with the witness's statement. 6 check in. arrive, report: We check in for work at 0800. 7 check in or into. register, sign in or on, enrol, log in: We checked into the hotel. 8 check into. investigate, check out, check up on, verify, check: The detective checked into the backgrounds of all applicants. 9 check off. tick (off), mark, check: Check off the names in red. 10 check out. a depart, leave; go: He checked out of the hotel and took a taxi to the airport. b investigate, research, explore, enquire into, look into or at or over, scrutinize, examine, inspect, probe, survey, check up on, check, check into, check over: You had best check out her references before hiring her. c pass, pass muster or scrutiny, meet approval, be verified, check: According to our records, his story checks out. d Slang cash in one's checks or chips, kick the bucket, croak: Sam checked out last week - heart attack, I think. 11 check over or out. review, verify, authenticate, check: Please check over my figures before I submit them to the accountant. 12 check up (on). a investigate, do research, probe, explore, check: I don't know her name, but I'll check up and let you know. b determine, discover, find out, look into, check: I want you to check up on where they eat lunch. --n. 13 stop, stopping, cease, surcease, hesitation, cessation, stoppage, interruption, break, pause, balk or baulk, discontinuity, discontinuation, discontinuance, suspension: The visitors continued to arrive without check, far into the night. 14 restraint, repression, inhibition, limitation, curb, restriction, control, constraint, hindrance, obstruction, impediment, damper: He keeps a good check on the foreman. This tax will serve as a check against free trade. 15 control, test, inspection, examination, scrutiny, verification, substantiation, authentication, confirmation, validation, corroboration: We do a thorough check on the quality of every product. 16 US tick, mark, dash, X: Place a check in the box alongside your choice. 17 token, receipt, counterfoil, stub; voucher, chit, certificate: Don't lose your baggage check. 18 chip, counter: Let's cash in our checks and go home. 19 Chiefly US bill, tab, charge(s): In the USA, people generally add 15 per cent to the check for a tip.
cheer n. 1 disposition, frame of mind, spirit: They were of good cheer, considering their predicament. 2 cheerfulness, gladness, mirth, joy, gaiety, blitheness, happiness, buoyancy, light-heartedness, merrymaking: There wasn't much cheer at the pub when we learnt of what had befallen poor Grover. 3 comfort, solace, encouragement, consolation: She brought in a little breath of cheer from the outside world. 4 shout, cry, hurrah, rah, huzzah, hurray or hooray: Three cheers for Penelope! --v. 5 comfort, console, solace, encourage, inspirit, warm, Colloq buck up: Your friendly note cheered me considerably. 6 gladden, enliven, cheer up, hearten, buoy up, brighten, elate, brighten, uplift, lift up: Let thy heart cheer thee in the days of thy youth. 7 applaud, shout, hurrah, clap, yell; Colloq Brit and Australian and New Zealand barrack for: The crowd cheered for five minutes when Mr Flews stood to speak.
chequered adj. 1 chequer-board, checked; patchwork; plaid, tartan: You cannot use a chequered tablecloth for a formal dinner. 2 variegated, diversified, alternating, variable, good and bad, varying, fluctuating, up and down; uncertain: David Williams had a rather chequered career in the army.
chest n. 1 box, coffer, trunk, strongbox, caddy, casket, case: It took four men to carry the chest outside, where we could open it. Martha kept her jewels in a small chest on the dresser. 2 breast; thorax: The wrestler was pounding his chest and shouting 'I am the greatest!'
chic adj. 1 stylish, fashionable, la mode, modish, smart, tasteful, elegant; sophisticated; Colloq trendy: Susanna was always a chic dresser. --n. 2 style, fashion, good taste, tastefulness, elegance, stylishness, modishness: There is an air of chic about him that repels many men but attracts many women.
chief n. 1 head, leader, principal, superior, supervisor, superintendent, manager, overseer, captain, master, ringleader, chieftain, Dialect himself, Colloq boss, bossman, Brit governor, gov., supremo, US man, kingpin, (head or chief) honcho, number one, numero uno, headman, big White Chief, big Chief, Great White Father, big Daddy, super; Slang big cheese, Brit gaffer, Chiefly US Mr Big: You'd best ask the chief for permission to fly to Rome. --adj. 2 head, leading, ranking, superior, supreme, foremost, premier, first, greatest, outstanding: Terry is your chief competition for the singles trophy. 3 principal, most important, essential, key, paramount, (first and) foremost, primary, prime, main: The chief reason I came was to see you. Here is a list of the chief crimes committed in the area last year.
child n. 1 offspring, descendant, son or daughter, little one, youngster, Formal progeny, issue, Colloq kid, nipper, Slang Brit sprog: How many children do you have? 2 foetus, newborn, neonate, infant, baby, babe, toddler, boy or girl, lad or lass, stripling, youngster, youth, juvenile, adolescent, teenager, young man or woman, young gentleman or lady, Chiefly Scots laddie or lassie: No children were born in the village for five years. These miscreants are mere children, who should not be punished as adults.
childish adj. childlike, juvenile, puerile, infantile, babyish; immature, inexperienced, nave, undeveloped, underdeveloped, retarded; silly, US sophomoric: They thought his reaction to their criticism was childish and petulant.
chill n. 1 coldness, cold, coolness, sharpness, nip: We put on our jackets to ward off the chill of the evening. 2 cold, flu, influenza, (la or the) grippe, ague, Technical coryza, Colloq (the) sniffles, sneezles and wheezles: Take off those wet clothes before you catch a chill. 3 coolness, iciness, frigidity, aloofness; unfriendliness, hostility: Mrs Marlow felt the chill in the stare of her husband's ex-wife. --adj. 4 cold, cool, numbing, chilling, chilly, raw, penetrating, icy, frigid, wintry, frosty, arctic, polar, glacial: A chill easterly wind made me shiver. 5 shivering, chilled (through), numb, numbed, numbing, benumbed: She kissed me with a lip more chill than stone. 6 cold, cold-blooded, aloof, indifferent, insensitive, unemotional, unsympathetic; chilly: The prison commandant viewed the corpses with chill detachment. --v. 7 cool, freeze, refrigerate, ice: The fruit tastes better if it has been chilled. 8 dampen, dispirit, depress, deject, dishearten, distress: The news of mother's illness chilled us all.
chime n. 1 bell, set of bells, carillon, ring, peal: Our church has a full chime of eight bells. 2 ringing, peal, chiming, tolling, tintinnabulation, clanging, ding-dong, striking; tinkle, jingle, jangle: We could hear the chimes of Big Ben from our hotel room. --v. 3 ring, peal, toll, sound, tintinnabulate, clang, strike: The clock chimed on the hour. 4 mark, denote, indicate, announce: The carillon chimed the hour at noon. 5 chime in. a join in, blend, harmonize: When singing this round, chime in at the third bar. b interrupt, intercede, intrude, interfere, break in, Colloq chip in; Slang butt in: I was about to speak when he chimed in with some silly remark.
chip n. 1 fragment, piece, shard or sherd, splinter, flake, sliver, scrap, morsel, bit: A chip of slate rattled down off the roof. 2 counter, marker, token; plaque, US check: He put his chip on number 14. --v. 3 chisel, whittle, hew: He chipped away at the stone till it fitted perfectly into the hole. 4 chip in. a contribute; participate: All the neighbours chipped in to pay for the street decorations. b interrupt, break in, intrude, interfere, intercede, interpose, Colloq chime in: Clive chipped in with his usual silly comment.
chisel v. 1 carve, cut, pare, groove, shape, engrave, grave: He was chiselling the figure of an eagle out of the board. 2 cheat, defraud, swindle, bilk, trick, fool, dupe, gull, Colloq bamboozle: The gamblers chiselled him out of a week's wages.
chivalry n. knight-errantry; honour, bravery, courage, courtesy, politeness, courtliness, gallantry, nobility, virtuousness, righteousness, justness, fairness, impartiality, equitableness: All the noble sentiments blended together constitute chivalry.
choke v. 1 suffocate, asphyxiate, smother, stifle, strangle, throttle, garrotte or garrote or garotte, burke: He choked his elderly victims, then stole their money. 2 stop, fill (up), block (up), obstruct, congest, clog, dam (up), constrict: The channel is completely choked with weeds. 3 Also, choke off. smother, suppress, stifle, prohibit, frustrate, deny, obviate, cut off, stop, put a stop to; dissuade, discourage: His policies choked off any chance for innovation. 4 choke back or down. suppress, repress, stifle, restrain: He choked back the tears when he saw the gravestone.
choosy adj. selective, discriminating, discerning, fastidious, finicky or finical, particular, fussy, demanding, exacting, difficult, hard to please , Colloq picky: If you weren't so choosy, you wouldn't have to pay so much.
christen v. 1 baptize, anoint: They are going to christen the baby next week. 2 name, call, dub: The child was christened Madelaine. The highest peak in Wales is christened Snowdon.
chronicle n. 1 record, history, diary, chronology, account, narrative, description, report, register, annal(s), archive: She has written a chronicle of the events leading up to the War of Jenkins' Ear. --v. 2 record, register, list, enter, archive, document, describe; tell, recount, narrate, report, relate, retail: In the Iliad Homer chronicled the legends of the Trojan War.
chubby adj. podgy or US pudgy; stumpy, stubby, chunky, tubby, plump, dumpy, thickset, heavy-set, heavy, ample, overweight: She was a bit chubby when a teenager but became a professional model when she was 21.
chum n. 1 friend, comrade, companion; confidant(e), familiar; fellow, colleague, Colloq pal, sidekick, Chiefly Brit and Australian and New Zealand mate, Chiefly US and Canadian buddy: I invited a chum of mine for the weekend. --v. 2 Often, chum around. associate, Colloq pal (around): Yes, we used to chum around together in the army. 3 chum up with. ally (oneself) with, be friendly with, go with, associate with, Colloq pal (up or about or around) with, US team up with: Lionel chummed up with Ashley to go swimming.
chute n. 1 waterfall, rapid: The canoe skimmed down the chute with lightning speed. 2 slide, shaft, channel, ramp, runway, trough, incline: The parcels come down this chute and you have to sort them by postcode.
circuit n. 1 compass, circumference, perimeter, periphery, girth, border, boundary, edge, limit, ambit, margin, outline, confine(s), bound, pale: The circuit of the area amounts to 72 miles. 2 round, tour, ambit, circle, orbit, course, lap: The rider completed the circuit of the ranch, mending the fence as he went.
circulate v. 1 move or go about or round or around, orbit, flow, course, run, circle: The blood circulates from the heart through the arteries and veins and back to the heart. 2 spread, distribute, disseminate, issue, publish, air, announce, proclaim, make known, noise abroad, bruit about, report, broadcast, reveal, divulge, advertise, publicize, promulgate, put about, bring or put out, pass out or round or around: He has been circulating the story that his ex-wife cheated on her income tax. 3 spread, go round or around, be bruited about, come out: A rumour has been circulating about your behaviour at the office party.
circumstance n. 1 Often, circumstances. situation, condition(s), state (of affairs); status, station, resources, income, finances: In the circumstances, all leave is cancelled. Each person will be helped according to the individual circumstance. 2 event, incident, episode, occurrence, affair, happening, occasion: Any unforeseen circumstance could set off a shooting war.
citizen n. 1 voter; native; householder, resident, inhabitant, denizen, dweller, freeman; Brit patrial, ratepayer; US taxpayer: All citizens are entitled to certain rights. 2 city-dweller, town-dweller, townsman, townswoman, villager, burgess, oppidan: She considers herself a citizen of Oxford.
civil adj. 1 civilian, non-military, lay, laic, laical, secular: There is a distinction between civil law and canon law. 2 domestic, internal; public: The economic conditions have led to civil strife. 3 polite, courteous, respectful, well-mannered, proper, civilized, cordial, formal, courtly, urbane, polished, refined: They are civil enough, but I always have the feeling they really despise tourists.
civilization n. 1 culture, refinement, cultivation, enlightenment, edification, sophistication, polish: The Romans brought civilization to many peoples who had been quite barbarous. 2 culture, mores, custom(s): He has studied Egyptian civilization all his life.
claim n. 1 demand, assertion, request, requisition, petition, application; requirement: As far as the land is concerned, his claim has been denied. 2 right(s), call, title: What possible claim could the Miss Dashwoods have on his generosity? --v. 3 demand, seek, ask or call (for), exact, insist (on or upon), require, command, be entitled to: She has every right to claim a share in the estate. 4 declare, assert, allege, state, put or set forth, affirm, contend, maintain: These measurements lack the degree of accuracy claimed for them. She claims that she was the first person to ring the police.
clamp n. 1 clasp, vice, brace, clip, fastener: Use a clamp to hold the pieces together till the glue dries. --v. 2 fasten (together), clip (together), bracket, make fast, clasp: You should clamp the planks together and plane the edges of both.
clap v. 1 applaud; cheer, acclaim: Everyone clapped when the boxer climbed into the ring. 2 slap, strike, pat: He clapped me on the shoulder in the friendliest way. 3 put, place, slap, fling, toss, cast , Colloq stick: He had no sooner set foot in the town when he was clapped in jail. 4 impose, lay, apply: The magistrate clapped a severe fine on me for speeding. --n. 5 crack, slap, report, crash, bang, snap: There was a loud clap of thunder, making the house shake. clapper n. tongue: We attached a rope to the clapper of the bell.
clarity n. 1 clearness, transparency, limpidity, pellucidity: The clarity of the sea in the tropics is owing to a lack of plankton. 2 lucidity, definition, definiteness, distinctness; comprehensibility, understandability, intelligibility, unambiguousness: One cannot argue with the clarity of her explanation of Hegelianism.
clasp n. 1 fastener, fastening, hook, catch, clip, pin, brooch: The ends were fastened together with a diamond clasp. 2 embrace, hug, hold, grasp, grip: He held her tight in his clasp. --v. 3 fasten, secure, close, hold, hook, clip, pin, clamp: The robe was clasped by an emerald pin. 4 hold, embrace, take hold of, hug, enclose, envelop: The beggar clasped my hand, his eyes seeking mine in piteous supplication. 5 grab, grasp, seize, clutch, grip: They clasped hands in friendship.
classic adj. 1 standard, leading, outstanding, prototypical, definitive, model, ideal, archetypal, paradigmatic: His military career is a classic example of what family connections can achieve. 2 legendary, immortal, enduring, deathless, ageless, timeless, undying, venerable, time-honoured; outstanding, first-rate, superior, excellent, noteworthy, notable, exemplary: By the time she was ten, she had read most of the classic works of English literature. He collects classic cars. --n. 3 paragon, epitome, outstanding example, exemplar, model, paradigm, prototype: When it comes to comedians, Ronnie is a classic. 4 masterpiece, master-work: The Rolls-Royce Silver Ghost is regarded as a classic by collectors.
claw n. 1 talon, nail: The cat had scratched her badly with its claws. --v. 2 scratch, tear, scrape, rake, slash: She clawed at his face to break his grip on her throat. 3 grapple, grab, catch, scrape, scrabble: He tried to climb up the embankment, clawing at the steep wall.
cleanse v. 1 clean, absterge, deterge, wash, scour, scrub: You need a scrubbing brush to cleanse the tub. 2 purify, depurate; purge, wash away, expiate: Each prayer repeated has a certain value in cleansing away sin.
clearance n. 1 space, gap, hole, interval, separation, room, margin, leeway, allowance: You must allow a clearance of 2 millimetres. 2 approval, endorsement, authorization, consent; licence, leave, permission: He cannot get security clearance with his prison record.
cleave v. split, divide, cut, cut or chop or hew in two or asunder, bisect, halve, separate, slit, rive: With a mighty blow the log was cleaved cleanly in two.
clerical adj. 1 ecclesiastical, churchly, pastoral, sacerdotal, priestly, hieratic, rabbinical, ministerial, monastic, apostolic, prelatic, papal, pontifical, episcopal, canonical: He was wearing his clerical vestments. 2 white-collar, office, professional, secretarial, stenographic, accounting, bookkeeping: He runs the shop and his wife has the clerical responsibilities.
clich n. stereotype, bromide, trite saying, old saw or maxim, truism, platitude, commonplace, banality, Colloq chestnut: The report was full of clichs and convinced no one.
clientele n. clients, patrons, customers; custom, business, trade, patronage, following: What sort of clientele do you expect to attract?
climate n. 1 weather, Literary clime: We are retiring to the Maldives because we like a sunny climate. 2 atmosphere, ambience or ambiance, air; feeling, mood, aura, milieu, feel: In the present climate of opinion, we'd best delay introducing the bill.
climb v. 1 Also, climb up. mount, ascend, go up, scale, shin (up), clamber up, US shinny (up): In one of the games we had to climb a greased pole. Two Japanese teams have climbed Mount Everest. 2 creep, trail, twine; grow: The ivy has climbed all over the garden wall. 3 rise, arise, ascend, go up, mount; advance: Watch the smoke climb into the sky. 4 climb along. creep, edge, clamber, crawl, inch: The cat burglar climbed along the ledge till he reached the window. 5 climb down. a descend, go down: We shall need a rope to climb down from here. b Usually, climb down from. retreat (from), withdraw (from), back away (from), give up, abandon, renounce: He has climbed down from his earlier position regarding women in the priesthood. --n. 6 grade, incline, route, pitch; ascent; descent: It was a steep climb to Camp Four.
clincher n. finishing touch, pay-off, punch-line, coup de grce, final or crowning blow: The point about saving costs proved to be a clincher, and we were given the go-ahead.
clip v. 1 clasp, fasten, fix, attach, hold, clinch; staple: Please clip these papers together. --n. 2 clasp, fastener: That clip isn't strong enough to hold all these papers.
clique n. set, coterie, crowd, circle, group: There was the usual clique from the Sales Department standing round the bar.
clod n. 1 lump, mass, gob, wad, hunk, chunk; piece of sod or turf; Colloq glob: A clod of earth was stuck between the spikes of my golf shoes. 2 idiot, fool, dolt, blockhead, simpleton, dunce, dope, oaf, Neanderthal, lout, ass, boor, clown, ninny, ninny-hammer, bumpkin, clodhopper, Slang vegetable, US and Canadian jerk: He felt a bit of a clod standing there with no idea which way to go.
close v. 1 shut, close up, seal; close off, lock, padlock, secure, fasten: I closed my eyes. Please close the door behind you. 2 make inaccessible, shut, Chiefly US place off limits: The Bodleian Library will be closed for a week. 3 conclude, end, finish, complete, bring to a close or end, terminate, climax, Colloq wind up: A brilliant flourish closes the first movement of the symphony. 4 conclude, sign, seal, make, settle, clinch, agree, arrange, work out, establish: Union and management closed a deal, and the strike was called off. 5 Also, close down. discontinue, terminate, stop, suspend, shut down, go out of business, cease operations, close (up), Colloq wind up, shut up shop, put up the shutters: Competition from the supermarket forced the greengrocer to close down. 6 Also, close off. seal, make inaccessible, shut (off), obstruct, obturate: This wing of the museum has been closed off temporarily. 7 close one's eyes to. ignore, overlook, disregard: You have always closed your eyes to his faults. 8 close up. a close, shut (up), lock up, close (down): It's time to close up for the night. b close, come or draw or bring together, unite, join; connect: We closed up ranks and stood at attention. --adj. 9 near; adjacent, proximate, proximal: He claims to have had a close encounter with an extraterrestrial. There certainly is a close resemblance between Kathy and her daughter. 10 closed, shut (up), fixed, fast, secure, tight: The hostages spent a month in close confinement. 11 dense, compact, tight, cramped, compressed, tiny, minuscule, minute: I could hardly read the close writing on the matchbox. 12 stuffy, musty, stale, fusty, confining, oppressive, airless, unventilated, confined, stifling, suffocating: They locked me in a room that was so close I could hardly breathe. 13 nearly equal or even, close-matched, neck and neck, tight: It was a close race, but Flanagan won by a hair. 14 careful, assiduous, precise, detailed, concentrated, strict, rigorous, minute, searching, attentive, alert, intent, intense, thorough, painstaking: Close analysis has revealed that the handwriting is that of a left-handed adult. 15 attached, intimate, devoted, familiar, inseparable, close-knit, solid, confidential; fast; Colloq thick, thick as thieves, pally, US and Canadian palsy-walsy, buddy-buddy: They are a very close family. She and her father are very close. 16 private, privy, secret, guarded, closely guarded, confidential: Although it should have been a close secret, the press managed to get hold of it. 17 secretive, reticent, taciturn, reserved, close-mouthed, tight-lipped, silent: She is very close about the whereabouts of her husband. 18 stingy, mean, miserly, niggardly, tight-fisted, close-fisted, parsimonious, penurious, penny-pinching, cheese-paring, Scrooge-like, skinflinty, Colloq near, Brit mingy: He's so close he charges his own mother rent. 19 secluded, concealed, shut up or away, hidden: The fugitives decided to lie close till nightfall. --adv. 20 near, in the neighbourhood (of), not far (from), adjacent (to); alongside; at hand, nearby, close by: The murder took place close to my house. I'm frightened, so please stay close by. 21 close to or on or onto. nearly, almost, about, practically, approximately, nigh unto, approaching: For close to two thousand years the site lay untouched. --n. 22 end, termination, conclusion, finish, completion, cessation; culmination: By the close of trading, share prices had risen again.
clothe v. 1 dress, attire, garb, apparel, outfit, fit out or up, accoutre or US also accouter, Brit kit out or up, Colloq tog up or out: He earns barely enough to clothe and feed his family. 2 endow, invest, caparison, endue: They tried to clothe their transactions with the raiment of honesty.
clown n. 1 jester, fool, zany, comic, comedian, funny man: Of all the performers at the circus, I like the clowns best. 2 buffoon, boor, rustic, yahoo, oaf, lout, clod, dolt, bumpkin, clodhopper, provincial, peasant, yokel, Colloq lummox; Slang chiefly US jerk; Old-fashioned galoot or galloot; Slang chiefly US and Canadian hick: That's the kind of language we expect to hear only from the most ignorant clowns. --v. 3 Often, clown around or about. fool (around), play the fool, horse around or about, caper, cut a caper or capers, engage in high jinks or hijinks, US cut up, cut didos: Stop clowning around with that hose and help water the garden.
clue n. 1 hint, suspicion, trace, intimation, suggestion, inkling, indication, pointer, lead, tip, tip-off, evidence, information, advice; key, answer, indicator: There is no clue pointing to anyone in particular. Any clue to the solution of the mystery disappeared in the fire. --v. 2 clue someone in or Brit also up. hint, suggest, imply, intimate, inform, advise, indicate: She clued us in as to who might have sent the letter.
clumsy adj. awkward, ungainly, unwieldy, ungraceful, gawky, maladroit, unhandy, unskilful, inept, bungling, bumbling, cloddish, ox-like, bovine, uncoordinated, lubberly, oafish; gauche, Colloq butter-fingered, ham-fisted, ham-handed, cack-handed: He made a clumsy attempt to put the key in the lock. She gave a clumsy excuse for being in the bank after hours.
clutch v. 1 seize, snatch, grab, grasp, take or lay hold of; hold; US snag: She clutched feebly to the rope before losing her grip and plunging into the abyss below. He clutched the child to his bosom. --n. 2 clutches. a grasp at, hold; embrace: We watched as the gazelle deftly eluded the cheetah's clutches. b influence, control, power, domination, dominance, possession: He fell into the clutches of the Triads.
coach n. 1 carriage, bus, omnibus, motor coach: The sightseeing coach broke down near Exeter. 2 tutor, trainer, instructor, teacher, mentor, Brit crammer: Her voice coach says she's not yet ready for grand opera. --v. 3 tutor, train, instruct, guide, direct, drill, prepare, prompt, school, exercise, Brit cram: Her lawyers have coached her in what to say in court.
coarse adj. 1 rough, uneven, scratchy, prickly, bristly; crude, rough-hewn, unfinished, unrefined: He has a three-day coarse growth of beard. The surface on the furniture is still too coarse. 2 rude, boorish, loutish, crude, ill-mannered, unpolished, rough, uncouth, impolite, uncivil, unrefined: Nigel's behaviour is coarse, and he spits when he talks. 3 rude, indecent, improper, indelicate, obscene, lewd, vulgar, gross, smutty, dirty, filthy, foul, offensive, lascivious, ribald, bawdy; foul-mouthed: Don't use that kind of coarse language with me. 4 inferior, low-quality, second-rate, shoddy, tawdry, trashy; kitschy: That shop stocks only the coarsest merchandise.
coat n. 1 overcoat, greatcoat; jacket, anorak, parka, Brit cagoule, Colloq Brit cag: Put on your coat, it's cold out. 2 coating, layer, covering, overlay; film: Two coats of paint ought to be enough. There was a coat of dust on everything. --v. 3 cover, paint, spread: We coated the floor with three layers of varnish.
cocky adj. overconfident, arrogant, haughty, conceited, self-important, egotistical, proud, vain, prideful, cocksure, saucy, cheeky, brash: Since she won the beauty contest, Claire has been entirely too cocky.
code n. 1 law(s), regulation(s), rule(s), jurisprudence, jus canonicum 'canon law', jus civile 'civil law', jus divinum 'divine law', jus gentium 'universal law', jus naturale 'natural law', corpus juris, pandect, lex non scripta 'common law, unwritten law', lex scripta 'statute law': In the present code there is no statute that forbids keeping a pet gnu. 2 cipher or cypher, cryptogram: Our agents send all their messages in code. 3 system, practice(s), convention(s), standard(s), criterion (criteria), principle(s), rule(s), maxim(s), custom(s), pattern(s), structure, tradition(s), organization, protocol, orthodoxy: Our code of behaviour is completely foreign to the islanders. --v. 4 encode, encipher or encypher, encrypt: It took an hour to code the information.
cog n. 1 tooth, gear-tooth, sprocket, ratchet: Stripping the gears means breaking the cogs off them. 2 underling, pawn, subordinate, nonentity, zero, cipher or cypher, nothing, nobody, small fry: He's only a small cog in the organization - we're after the big wheel himself.
coherent adj. 1 consistent, orderly, organized, well-organized, logical, rational, reasonable, well-ordered: The MP set forth a coherent argument against an excise tax. 2 understandable, sensible, comprehensible, intelligible, articulate, lucid, clear: He was so frightened and hysterical that he was unable to tell a coherent story.
coil v. 1 wind, twist, coil, snake, wrap, enwrap, spiral, Nautical fake or flake (down): The rope is coiled round a capstan. --n. 2 winding(s), circle(s), loop, whorl, spiral, helix, twist: His foot caught in the coil of rope and he was carried overboard.
coincide v. fall or come or go together, line up, co-occur, correspond, synchronize, match, tally, agree, (be in) accord, equal, jibe: This year, Easter and Passover coincide. The southern boundary coincides with the Thames.
coincidental adj. chance, lucky or unlucky, fortuitous, accidental, unexpected, unpredicted, unpredictable, unforeseen: It was entirely coincidental that we were on the same train.
cold-blooded adj. 1 Technical poikilothermic or poikilothermal: Reptiles are cold-blooded. 2 unexcited, unemotional, cool, unimpassioned, unfeeling, callous, thick-skinned, insensitive, heartless, uncaring, stony, steely, stony-hearted, cold-hearted, imperturbable, unmoved, indifferent, unresponsive, unsympathetic, apathetic, dispassionate: The murder appeared to be the act of a cold-blooded killer. 3 cruel, brutal, savage, inhuman, barbarous, vicious, barbaric, merciless, pitiless, ruthless: They were victims of a cold-blooded policy of repatriation.
collaborate v. cooperate, join (forces), work together, team up: We collaborated in writing both the lyrics and music.
colleague n. team-mate, fellow-worker, co-worker; associate, comrade, ally, confrre, mate, consociate, Chiefly Brit and Australian mate, US buddy: I have asked some of my colleagues from the office to join us for dinner.
collected adj. calm, serene, controlled, cool, sedate, composed, nonchalant, poised, unruffled, unperturbed, at ease, comfortable, tranquil, unexcited; imperturbable; confident: Considering what she's just gone through, Tanya seems quite collected.
collector n. gatherer, accumulator; connoisseur, art-lover: The rent collector is coming tomorrow. We are collectors of paintings by unknown artists.
collision n. smash-up, smash, crash, wreck, pile-up, Colloq Brit prang; US crack-up: There has been a major collision on the Tring road.
colour n. 1 hue, tint, tincture, shade, tone, cast, tinge, pigmentation; pigment, dye: The colours of the curtains don't match the wall. 2 colours. a flag, ensign, standard, pennant, banner, burgee: The sloop hoisted the British colours. b device, badge, emblem, insigne or pl insignia, symbol(s), identification; identity, appearance, face; loyalties: The investigators found he'd been operating under false colours. She has shown her true colours at last. --v. 3 tint, dye, stain, paint, crayon, tincture, tinge; pigment: These sections will stand out better if you colour them red. 4 influence, affect, distort, falsify, taint, warp, twist, slant, pervert, bias: Jealousy colours his opinion of his supervisor. 5 blush, redden, flush: After their affair, she visibly coloured whenever they met. 6 falsify, distort, misrepresent, disguise, mask, conceal: He feigns confusion when he wishes to colour his true feelings.
combat n. 1 fight, encounter, engagement, duel, battle, conflict, war, warfare; skirmish: The two men were locked in single combat. 2 struggle, contest, strife, controversy, dispute, quarrel, disagreement, altercation, vendetta, feud: There was endless combat between father and son. 3 opposition, difference, confrontation: The combat between good and evil can never end. 4 action, fighting, battle, war: He was in combat on three occasions. Have you seen any combat? --v. 5 fight, (do) battle, war, clash, contend, duel, joust, wrestle, come to blows, spar, grapple (with): The soldiers are combating hand to hand in the trenches. 6 fight, struggle or strive against, contest, oppose, defy, enter the lists against, withstand: There was broad support for measures to combat crime and pollution.
combine v. 1 unite, unify, join, connect, relate, link, conjoin, band, ally, associate, integrate, merge, pool: Combine forces, and we'll win. 2 blend, mix, amalgamate, mingle, consolidate, compound, incorporate, put together: Combine the water, butter, and salt in a saucepan. 3 blend, fuse, synthesize, bind, bond, compound, unite, coalesce, come together, commingle, mingle: When heated, the silver combines with the chlorine.
comedian n. humorist, comic, wit, wag, jokesmith; clown, buffoon, funny man, funster, jester, fool, zany, merry andrew: The new comedian at the variety show is very funny.
come-on n. lure, attraction, enticement, inducement, temptation, bait; loss-leader: The free glassware is a come-on to buy a tankful of petrol.
comfortable adj. 1 at ease, easy, tranquil, serene, relaxed, contented, untroubled, undisturbed: After the operation, the nurses did everything they could to make me comfortable. 2 well off, carefree, insouciant, contented, satisfied; self-satisfied, complacent, smug: They don't have a lot of money, but they're comfortable enough. 3 likeable, easy, congenial, amiable, cordial, warm, pleasant, agreeable, enjoyable, relaxing: Daphne is a very comfortable sort of person to be with. 4 suitable, acceptable, adequate, satisfactory, reasonable: The radio was on very loud, so I turned down the volume to a more comfortable level.
command v. 1 order, direct, bid, enjoin, charge, request, require, demand, instruct; say, prescribe, decree: What the Queen commands must be done. 2 control, dominate, have or maintain or wield authority or control or sway or influence over, hold sway over; lead, rule, govern, have under one's thumb, call the tune; head (up): Whoever commands the sea commands the town. He commanded a battalion during the war. 3 master, draw upon or on, control, summon: The work required all the skill the sculptor could command. 4 attract, earn; exact, compel, demand: Gunga Din's bravery commanded the respect of the entire regiment. 5 dominate, control, overlook, look down on; have, enjoy, possess: The tower commands a view of the entire valley. --n. 6 order, direction, behest, mandate, charge, bidding, instruction: Your wish is my command. 7 control, authority, power, sovereignty, dominion, regulation, direction, management, government, oversight, leadership, charge, sway, stewardship, jurisdiction: The unit is under the command of the colonel. 8 mastery, control, (thorough) grasp or knowledge: He has a good command of three languages.
commence v. 1 begin, enter upon, start, initiate, launch, embark on or upon: Tomorrow morning, we commence the ascent of Mont Blanc. 2 begin, start, open: The ceremonies are about to commence. 3 begin, start, initiate, launch, inaugurate, establish: We commenced operations at this plant last year.
commerce n. trade, business, mercantilism, marketing, merchandising, traffic, trafficking: All commerce consists in the exchange of commodities of equal value. My husband is in commerce.
committee n. council, board, cabinet, panel, body, commission: They have set up a committee to oversee park planning.
communicate v. 1 make known, impart, confer, transmit, transfer, hand on or down, share, pass on or along, send on, spread; tell, divulge, disclose, reveal, announce, transmit, promulgate, proffer, tender, offer, convey, deliver, present, give, yield, supply: Moral qualities are sometimes thought to be communicated by descent. I communicated to them the information that I had about the missiles. 2 Also, communicate with. be in communication (with), converse (with), talk (with), chat (with); correspond (with); associate (with), be in contact or touch (with), reach: Donald and I haven't communicated in years. Instead of communicating with him by telephone, she did so via personal notices in the newspaper. 3 get or put across, make understandable; get through to, reach, be of one mind, be in tune, relate, be in or en rapport, make oneself understood , Slang be or vibrate on the same frequency or wavelength: He has difficulty in communicating his ideas to his students. We might talk, but are we communicating?
companion n. 1 fellow, associate, comrade, colleague, confrre, Colloq chiefly Brit and Australian mate, US and Canadian buddy: For ten years they had been constant companions. 2 vade-mecum, manual, handbook, guide, reference book, enchiridion: They publish a pocket companion listing the month's events. 3 escort, chaperon(e), attendant, (in Spain, Portugal) duenna: Aunt Dinah is too old to be alone, so we have engaged a companion for her.
company n. 1 companionship, society, fellowship; attendance, presence; associates, friends, companions, comrades: It was a stormy night, and I was only too glad to have his company. A man is known by the company he keeps. 2 assemblage, party, band, group, retinue, entourage, suite, train, coterie, ensemble, troop, followers, following, flock; circle, assembly, gathering, convention, body, crowd, throng, Theatre troupe, cast, players, actors, performers: The king arrived with his company at the gate of the city. The speaker addressed the assembled company. The company leaves today for a month on the road. 3 guest(s); visitor(s), caller(s): Are you having company for dinner tonight? 4 firm, business, house, concern, institution, establishment, enterprise; proprietorship, partnership, corporation, Brit public limited company, plc, Australian and New Zealand and South African private limited company, Pty: The company was founded in 1867.
comparison n. 1 contrasting, contrast, juxtaposing, juxtaposition, balancing, balance, weighing: His comparison of the candidates is prejudiced. 2 match, similarity, resemblance, likeness, comparability, relation, relationship, commensurability, kinship, point of agreement or correspondence: There is no comparison between a racing car and a family car.
compensate v. 1 recompense, make up (for), make restitution or reparation, offset, make good, indemnify, repay, reimburse, redress, requite; expiate, atone, make amends (for): The company compensated us for the loss of the car. Arriving at school early today, Gerard, does not compensate for having been late yesterday. 2 balance, counterpoise, counterbalance, equalize, neutralize, even (up), square, offset: Deduct six ounces to compensate for the weight of the container. 3 pay, remunerate, reward, repay, recompense: Two pounds does not compensate me adequately for an hour's work.
compete v. contend, vie, struggle, strive, conflict, joust, fence; fight, battle, clash, collide: They are competing to see who will become chairman of the company. These two designs compete with one another for the viewer's attention.
competition n. 1 rivalry, contention, striving, struggle: The competition for newspaper circulation becomes keener every day. 2 contest, match, meet, game, tournament, event; championship: We entered the competition as underdogs. 3 See competitor.
compile v. collect, put together, gather, accumulate, assemble, amass, collate, organize, order, systematize; anthologize, compose: He has compiled a large butterfly collection. Every year she compiles a volume of the best stories.
complaint n. grumble, grievance, grouse, Colloq gripe, squawk , Slang beef, US kick: I have no complaints about my treatment while I was in hospital.
complete adj. 1 entire, whole, intact, uncut, unbroken, undivided, unabridged, full, undiminished, unabated, unreduced: The complete works of Dickens are available in paperback. They performed the complete opera, a six-hour marathon. 2 finished, ended, concluded, over, done, accomplished, terminated; settled, executed, performed: The company's figures are not yet complete. When will your building plan be complete? 3 entire, total, thorough, absolute, utter, unqualified, unmixed, unalloyed, pure, unmitigated, rank: I attribute the disaster to a complete breakdown of communication, together with the complete incompetence of the site manager. 4 perfect, consummate, exemplary, ideal, model, superior, superlative, superb, faultless, flawless: Her dissertation is a work of complete scholarship. --v. 5 conclude, finish, end, bring to an end, accomplish, achieve, do, Colloq wrap up; finalize: He stopped after completing ten ciruits of the track. Have you completed the prospectus? 6 round out, round off, perfect; crown, culminate: The unit was completed by the addition of five platoons. A golden cupola completed the top of the dome.
completion n. 1 conclusion, end, close, termination, fulfilment, culmination, realization, accomplishment, finish: The completion of the building phase is scheduled for next July. 2 finishing, finalization, wind-up, finishing-off, completing: The completion of the house is scheduled for next October.
complicate v. 1 mix up, entangle, snarl, tangle, confound, muddle, confuse: You only complicate matters by bringing up the question of religion in a discussion of money. 2 make complicated or complex, make involved or intricate, make a shambles or mess or muddle of, mess up, Colloq screw up: The phenomena of tides and currents greatly complicate coastwise navigation.
complication n. 1 complexity, involvement, intricacy, convolution: The complications of the diagram make it almost impossible to understand. 2 difficulty, problem, predicament, dilemma, obstacle, obstruction, snag, drawback: Asking for more money might create complications.
complimentary adj. 1 laudatory, commendatory, encomiastic, panegyrical, eulogistic, congratulatory, flattering: The duke was most complimentary about my sculpture. 2 free, gratis, on the house: The shoehorn is complimentary when you buy a pair of shoes.
compose v. 1 constitute, form, make (up), be a constituent or ingredient or component or element of, be a part of: Clouds are composed of countless particles of water. 2 write, create, imagine, think up, originate, frame, formulate, make (up), author, devise; contrive; set to music, arrange: He composed the poem while travelling on the Flying Scotsman. That symphony was composed in 1873. 3 be composed of. consist of or in, comprise, be formed or made (up) of, be constituted of: The new government is composed of a coalition of three parties. 4 compose oneself. calm (down), quiet or quieten (down), pacify, control oneself, get control of or over oneself: They stopped crying and composed themselves.
compound v. 1 put together, combine, mix, concoct, compose, make (up), formulate, blend: They compound curry powder from different spices. 2 blend, merge, coalesce, combine, unite, fuse or US also fuze, come or go together: Sometimes two words compound to form one, as in 'ingrown', 'outgrow', and 'uptake'. 3 aggravate, intensify, exacerbate, heighten, augment, add to, worsen, increase; enhance, multiply: Demanding your money back now will only compound the problem. --adj. 4 intricate, complex, involved, complicated; composite, multiple, multiform, multifaceted, Technical parasynthetic, parathetic: The compound eye of the fly / Lets it see far better than I. A compound sentence is composed of two or more clauses joined by one or more coordinating conjunctions, express or understood. --n. 5 composite, blend, synthesis, combination, consolidation, Technical parasynthesis, parathesis; mixture, amalgam, alloy, merging, merger, mix: Table salt is a compound of the metallic element sodium and the gaseous element chlorine. 'Slithy' is a compound of 'slimy' and 'writhe'.
comprehensive adj. inclusive, encompassing, thorough, extensive, full, exhaustive, complete, sweeping, wide, broad, encyclopedic or encyclopaedic: We hope to give comprehensive coverage to all aspects of the subject in our new book.
compunction n. 1 remorse, contrition, regret, uneasiness of mind, pang or pricking of conscience, self-reproach: He has no compunction about hurting your feelings. 2 hesitation, reluctance, reserve, disinclination, qualm, misgiving, unwillingness, fear: She has no compunction about speaking her mind.
comrade n. colleague, associate, friend, companion, chum, crony, confrre, Colloq pal, chum, Chiefly Brit and Australian mate, Australian cobber, US buddy: None of my comrades from the old regiment attended the reunion this year.
conceit n. 1 vanity, pride, egotism, self-esteem, self-admiration, self-love, narcissism, vainglory, amour propre; arrogance: His conceit is matched only by his incompetence. 2 fancy, whim, caprice: Some have a conceit their drink tastes better / In an outlandish cup than their own. 3 elaborate figure (of speech), affectation, strained or far-fetched metaphor: A conceit would be calling the waves 'nodding hearse-plumes'.
conceive v. 1 have, bear, beget, sire, father, give birth to; become pregnant (with): After the twins, they conceived three boys. 2 formulate, devise, plan, contrive, create, plot, hatch, develop, evolve, fabricate, think or make up, form, frame, design: He conceived a scheme for swindling that poor woman out of her life savings. 3 think (up), imagine, speculate (on), perceive, see, understand, realize, comprehend, envision, envisage, conjure up, dream up, hypothesize, postulate, posit, suggest, suppose: I cannot conceive of any reason why she shouldn't be allowed to take part.
conception n. 1 birth, beginning, genesis, inception, commencement, emergence, start, inauguration, initiation, launch, launching, origin, origination, formation, formulation, introduction: We were excited to be in at the conception of the scheme. 2 idea, notion, inkling, clue, concept; ide reu; understanding, knowledge, appreciation, comprehension: He has no conception of what is involved in maintaining a yacht. 3 design, plan, scheme, proposal, outline: Transporting a building from another site instead of constructing one was a bold conception.
concerned adj. 1 involved, responsible, interested, active; caring, solicitous: The best governments are run by a concerned citizenry. 2 troubled, vexed, anxious, worried, distressed, uneasy, perturbed, bothered, upset, disturbed: They were not at all concerned about the state of my health.
concise adj. brief, terse, laconic, compact, direct, succinct, epigrammatic, cogent, pithy, compendious, summary, epigrammatic, trenchant, compressed, condensed, short; shortened, abridged, curtailed, abbreviated: He gave a concise summary of the findings. This is a concise edition of the dictionary.
condemn v. 1 censure, blame, criticize, remonstrate with or against, denounce, disparage, reproach, rebuke, reprove, scold, reprimand, upbraid: The council was condemned for failing to provide adequate health care. 2 convict, find guilty; sentence, doom: The judge condemned them to twenty years imprisonment. 3 Usually, condemned. doomed, damned, destined, fated, ordained, foreordained; consigned: He has been condemned to wander forever.
condescending adj. patronizing, belittling, disdainful, contemptuous, pompous, overbearing, high-handed, imperious, snobbish, haughty, Colloq snooty, Brit toffee-nosed; Slang snotty: He thinks he's better than everyone, and I can't stand his condescending manner.
conduct n. 1 behaviour, actions, demeanour, manners, deportment, comportment, attitude: Such conduct will not be tolerated in this school. 2 guidance, direction, management, supervision, leadership, administration, government, running, handling, control, command, regulation, operation: Had the conduct of the war been left up to him, we should have lost. --v. 3 guide, direct, supervise, manage, carry on, run, control, administer, regulate, operate: They conduct a remarkably successful business. 4 lead, guide, escort, show (in or out), usher: We were conducted through the gallery by the curator herself. 5 channel, carry, transmit, convey; direct: Electrical power is conducted by the cable. 6 conduct oneself. behave, act, demean, deport, comport, acquit: For a six-year-old, he conducted himself very well.
conference n. meeting, convention, symposium, congress, seminar, forum, colloquium; discussion, talk, colloquy, US bull session: In 1988, the conference was held in Budapest.
confidence n. 1 trust, reliance, faith; belief: Your parents have a great deal of confidence in you. 2 assurance, self-confidence, self-assurance, self-reliance, poise, aplomb, coolness; conviction, certitude, boldness, courage, nerve: We admire the confidence she shows in her daring plan. 3 in confidence. in secrecy, in privacy, privately, confidentially, intimately, Colloq on the qt or QT: I am telling you this in confidence.
confidential adj. private, secret, intimate, classified, Colloq hush-hush: These confidential papers must never be out of your possession.
confiscate v. appropriate, seize, impound, sequester, sequestrate, expropriate, take (away), commandeer: The police confiscated my car to use as evidence.
conform v. 1 comply (with), follow, observe, obey, respect, abide by, adapt or adjust (to): We agree to conform to the rules of the club. 2 accord (with), agree (with), concur (with), coincide (with), correspond (with), harmonize (with), square (with), match, tally (with), fit (in with), be consistent (with), be in accord or in accordance (with): Their behaviour did not conform with what is expected in such circles. The two plans do not conform.
confused adj. 1 mixed up, jumbled, disordered, disorganized, disorderly, muddled, muddle-headed, snarled (up), messy, baffling, confusing, mystifying, puzzling, perplexing; contradictory, ambiguous, misleading, inconsistent, mixed up, botched (up) , Colloq higgledy-piggledy: The accountants have provided a confused set of figures. 2 bewildered, perplexed, puzzled, baffled, (be)fuddled, mystified, disoriented, discomposed, at sea, flummoxed, dazed, muddled, bemused, mixed up, nonplussed, disconcerted, abashed, put off, put out, disturbed, flustered, ill at ease, upset, at sixes and sevens, at a loss, Rare metagrobolized, Colloq screwed-up, muzzy, out of it, not with it, Chiefly US discombobulated, fouled up; Slang (all) balled up, Brit (all) bollocksed or ballocksed (up), US (all) bollixed (up), US and Canadian snafu: I have never seen anyone so confused about a simple question of astrophysics. 3 jumbled, mixed up, muddled, disorderly, confusing, messy, disorganized, topsy-turvy; miscellaneous, motley, Brit shambolic: The books lay in a confused heap on the floor.
congested adj. (over)crowded, blocked (up), jammed, crammed, plugged, stopped or stuffed (up), choked: The police are trying to deal with traffic at congested intersections.
congratulations interjection. Felicitations!, Best wishes!, Well done!, Many happy returns!, Colloq Nice going!, Good show!: Heartiest congratulations! You've come in first!
conquer v. 1 overcome, vanquish, beat, defeat, subdue, crush, subjugate: The Moors conquered most of Spain. 2 capture, seize, win, gain, acquire, obtain; occupy, annex, overrun: They conquered the territory by force of arms. 3 overcome, triumph or prevail over, beat, surmount, master, win out (over): He has finally conquered the habit of biting his fingernails.
conscience n. morality, morals, judgement, fairness, sense of right and wrong, ethics, honour, standards, principles, scruples: In such matters, your conscience must be your guide.
conscious adj. 1 aware, awake, alert: I was conscious of an eerie presence. The victim of the attack is now conscious. 2 deliberate, intentional, purposive, purposeful, wilful, studied: Lydia has been making a conscious effort to be friendlier to me.
consequently adv. so, therefore, as a result or consequence, accordingly, ergo, hence, thus: He was found guilty and, consequently, sentenced to death.
conservative adj. 1 reactionary, right, right-wing, rightist, Tory: In his conservative view, no change is ever for the better. 2 cautious, careful, prudent, moderate, temperate, middle-of-the-road, sober, stable; unprogressive, orthodox, traditional, conformist, hidebound, conventional, standard, fundamentalist, true-blue, dyed in the wool: The conservative approach would be to study the problem before making a change. The conservative members voted against electing certain members to the club. --n. 3 reactionary, rightist, right-winger, Tory, fundamentalist; moderate, middle-of-the-roader: He's a conservative and favours a classical education. conserve v. 1 keep, preserve, hold on to, save, spare, reserve: Conserve your energy for later, when we get near the top. 2 preserve, maintain, keep up, take care of: These buildings should be conserved for later generations.
considerable adj. 1 sizeable, substantial, large, big, great; appreciable, respectable, noticeable, largish, biggish, goodly, decent, fair, Colloq tidy: A considerable crowd were gathered outside. 2 important, worthy, of consequence, of distinction, distinguished, illustrious, noteworthy, notable, remarkable, estimable, influential, respectable: Some of the most considerable citizens were banished.
consideration n. 1 regard, concern, attentiveness, solicitude, thoughtfulness, compassion, kindness, kindliness, kind-heartedness, considerateness, respect, caring, care: Out of consideration for your father, you should complete your studies. 2 reward, compensation, remuneration, fee, payment, recompense, emolument, tip, gratuity, pourboire, baksheesh or backsheesh; honorarium: The boy will look after your luggage for a small consideration, madam. 3 thought, deliberation, reflection, contemplation, rumination, cogitation, study, examination: After some consideration, we have decided that we will finance the project.
consistent adj. 1 agreeing, in agreement, in harmony, in keeping, harmonious, in concordance, conforming, in conformance, accordant, compatible, in accord or accordance, consonant: Her story is not consistent with the facts. 2 dependable, regular, predictable, undeviating, steady, steadfast, unchanging, uniform, unswerving, constant: His behaviour, even under pressure, has been quite consistent.
console v. comfort, soothe, calm, assuage, solace, cheer (up): Ivan made an effort to console the grieving widow.
conspiracy n. plot, scheme, stratagem, intrigue, collusion, cabal, connivance, foul play, dirty work: He suspected them of a conspiracy to defraud their clients.
constant adj. 1 resolute, immovable, steadfast, firm, dependable, unshakeable or unshakable, determined, unswerving, undeviating, persevering, unwearying, unwearied, untiring, indefatigable, tireless, unflagging, unwavering, unfailing, unfaltering, persistent; loyal, true, tried and true, devoted, staunch, trusty, faithful: He was her constant companion during her troubles. 2 incessant, unceasing, ceaseless, perpetual, persistent, uninterrupted, steady, regular, invariable, unremitting, unvarying, relentless, unrelenting, continuous, continual; unending, endless, never-ending, non-stop, perennial, eternal, everlasting, Literary sempiternal: The constant pain almost made me cry out. Their constant bickering is getting on my nerves. 3 unchanging, unchanged, invariable, unvarying, fixed, uniform, unalterable, immutable, changeless, persistent: The numbers might change, but the ratio is constant.
constructive adj. 1 helpful, useful, practicable, advantageous, practical, productive, beneficial, positive: She provided much constructive advice on how to design the factory. 2 virtual, inferential, implicit, inferred, derived, deduced: As it turned out, the shareholders were the constructive victims of the fraud.
consultant n. 1 physician, doctor, specialist, expert: You ought to get the opinion of another consultant. 2 adviser or advisor, expert, counsellor or US counselor: Our financial consultant tells us how to handle the company funds.
consummation n. 1 completion, accomplishment, fulfilment, finish, end, realization, attainment, achievement, success; completing, accomplishing, fulfilling, finishing, ending, realizing, attaining, achieving: Owning a Rolls Royce was the consummation of her dreams. 2 acme, perfection, peak, culmination, finishing touch, conclusion, grand finale, climax: The Nobel prize was the consummation of an arduous life of research.
contain v. 1 hold, have in it; bear, carry: The capsule contained a deadly poison. 2 hold, have the capacity for, accommodate, admit, carry; seat: This bottle contains no more than a quart. The theatre can contain 200. 3 restrain, restrict, confine, repress, control, hold back or in, curb, bridle, keep under control, suppress, check, stifle: He could hardly contain himself when he learnt he had passed the examination.
contemplate v. 1 look or gaze at or on or upon, behold, view, survey, observe, regard, eye; scan, scrutinize, inspect: I contemplated the scene of the Grand Canal from my hotel room. 2 ruminate (over), ponder (on or over), deliberate (over), muse (on or over), meditate or reflect (on), think (about or over), mull over, cogitate (over), turn over in one's mind, brood on or over, chew on or over, consider, study, examine: She was contemplating the events of the past night. Give me a moment to contemplate. 3 plan, intend, think of or about, consider, entertain the idea or notion of: After we broke up, I contemplated emigrating to Australia.
contempt n. loathing, abhorrence, hatred, odium, hate; scorn, disdain, contumely, disgust: She has nothing but contempt for cowards.
contemptuous adj. scornful, disdainful, sneering, derisive, insulting, contumelious, insolent: The maestro was contemptuous of my piano-playing.
content n. 1 pleasure, satisfaction, gratification, happiness, contentment, contentedness, felicity, delight: He kept on singing to his heart's content. 2 ease, comfort, tranquillity, serenity, peace, peacefulness, contentedness: I have a feeling of such content merely being with you. --adj. 3 pleased, satisfied, happy, delighted, contented, gratified, glad, cheerful; comfortable, fulfilled: I was quite content to be home once more. --v. 4 satisfy, please, gratify, soothe, cheer, gladden, delight: It contented him to be near her.
contestant n. contender, competitor, opponent, rival, adversary, entrant, player, participant: The winner is the contestant from Chearsley.
continual adj. constant, incessant, perpetual, non-stop, persistent, uninterrupted, regular, steady, unbroken, unceasing, ceaseless, constant, eternal, unremitting, interminable, endless, unending; Loosely continuous: She has this continual ringing in her ears.
continuous adj. 1 connected, unbroken, uninterrupted: The wall is continuous except for one gate. 2 incessant, persistent, perpetual, non-stop, unceasing, ceaseless, constant, unremitting, interminable, endless, unending; Loosely continual: A continuous stream of refugees passed through the camp.
contradictory adj. inconsistent, paradoxical, incongruous, conflicting, incompatible, discrepant; ambiguous, ambivalent: The witnesses' descriptions of the robbers are contradictory.
contrary adj. 1 opposite, opposing, opposed, different, contradictory, conflicting, antagonistic: Set aside enough time to hear the contrary side of the argument. 2 antagonistic, perverse, contrarious, hostile, unfriendly, inimical, cross-grained, refractory, contumacious, self-willed, argumentative, unaccommodating, antipathetic, Literary froward: He can disagree, but why must he be so contrary? 3 adverse, unfavourable, inauspicious, unlucky, unfortunate, unpropitious, untoward, inopportune, bad, foul: We ran into contrary winds and were delayed. --n. 4 opposite, reverse: Her present position is the direct contrary of the one she took yesterday. --adv. 5 perversely, oppositely, contrariwise, contrarily, in opposition to: The rat in the maze acted contrary to the expected pattern.
contribute v. 1 give, furnish, donate, bestow, grant, present, provide, supply: He contributed three paintings by Longchamp to the museum. They contributed generously to the restoration fund. 2 contribute to. add to, promote, advance, help, aid, support, forward, have a hand in, play a part or role in: They believe that poor parental supervision contributes to juvenile delinquency.
controversial adj. 1 debatable, disputable, questionable, moot, doubtful, unsettled: Who will run the department is a controversial matter. 2 polemical, dialectic, litigious, factious: She has studied the controversial writings of the 19th-century feminists. 3 disputatious, argumentative, contentious; provocative: Race relations have remained a controversial issue for centuries.
convalesce v. recover, improve, get better, recuperate: The doctor said I needed only a week to convalesce after the operation.
convention n. 1 assembly, meeting, gathering, congregation, congress, conference, symposium, council, conclave, diet, synod, seminar: The annual convention of cat fanciers will take place in June. 2 rule, practice, custom, tradition, usage, formality, conventionalism: According to convention, this year's vice-president becomes president next year.
converge v. come or go together, meet, join, unite, merge, coincide; blend: The roads converge in the valley.
conversationalist n. deipnosophist: It was a pleasure to have dinner with an intelligent conversationalist for a change.
convert v. 1 change, modify, alter, transform, transmute, mutate, transfigure, transmogrify, remodel, remake, metamorphose: We converted our rowing-boat into a sailing dinghy. 2 proselytize, switch, change (over): To avoid the horrors of the Inquisition, many Spanish Jews converted to Catholicism. --n. 3 proselyte; neophyte, catechumen, disciple: Converts are often the most passionate believers.
conviction n. 1 proof of guilt: After his conviction, he was sentenced to life imprisonment. 2 belief, opinion, view, persuasion, position: It is her conviction that the painting is by Titian. 3 certainty, sureness, positiveness, confidence, assurance, certitude: He doesn't have the courage to back up his convictions.
cool adj. 1 chilly, chill, chilling, cooling, unheated; chilled, cold, refreshing, fresh: It's rather cool outside today. I'd prefer some cool lemonade. 2 calm, serene, collected, level-headed, quiet, unexcited, unemotional, undisturbed, unexcitable, unruffled, unflappable, cool-headed, relaxed, controlled, under control, self-possessed, self-controlled, unperturbed, phlegmatic, composed, imperturbable: He remains cool even in a crisis. 3 dispassionate, cold, cold-blooded, emotionless, deliberate, cold-hearted, calculated, wilful, premeditated, purposeful, purposive: It was clearly the cool act of a professional criminal. 4 uninvolved, distant, remote, aloof, detached, removed, uninterested, unconcerned, unsympathetic, apathetic, cold, cold-hearted, cold-blooded: How can you be so cool where human lives are concerned? 5 lukewarm, distant, uncordial, unfriendly, unsociable, unapproachable, standoffish, forbidding, unwelcoming, cold, frigid: After the affair, she was distinctly cool towards him. 6 bold, audacious, brazen, overconfident, presumptuous, shameless, unabashed, impertinent, impudent, insolent: I cannot account for the cool way he insulted his host. --n. 7 coolness, chill, chilliness, Colloq coolth: I shall have a sherry to ward off the cool of the evening. 8 aplomb, poise, sedateness, control, self-control, composure, sang-froid: He really lost his cool when she told him he was a lousy driver. --v. 9 chill, refrigerate, ice: Cool the pudding before serving. 10 diminish, reduce, lessen, abate, moderate: Her interest quickly cooled when she discovered he was married.
cooperation n. 1 collaboration, teamwork, interaction, synergism or synergy: Only through cooperation will we be able to achieve success. 2 support, help, aid, assistance, patronage, backing, advocacy, favour, helping hand, friendship, blessing, sponsorship, auspices, backup: We needed the cooperation of people like you to mount the exhibition.
cope v. 1 manage, get along or by, make do, survive, subsist, come through: Even with seven children to care for, she copes very well. 2 cope with. be a match for, withstand, contend with or against, handle, deal with, dispose of: I cannot cope with all the work I have been given to do.
cord n. string, line, twine; rope: Tie the cord around the parcel twice.
core n. 1 centre, heart, middle, nucleus, inside(s): Remove the core of the apple first. 2 essence, marrow, heart, pith, gist, quintessence, sum and substance: The core of the problem is her refusal to consider any alternative. --v. 3 pit, seed: The pie might have tasted better if you'd cored the apples first.
corpse n. body, remains, cadaver, Slang stiff; (of an animal) carcass: The corpses were buried in a mass grave.
correction n. 1 improvement, emendation, rectification, redress, remedy, reparation, amendment; corrigendum: With these corrections, the work will be vastly better. 2 punishment, castigation, chastisement: He resented her continual correction of him for trivial things.
correspondent n. newspaperman, newspaperwoman, pressman, presswoman, journalist, reporter, stringer, newsman, newsperson: Here is a report from our correspondent in Sydney.
corrupt adj. 1 dishonest, untrustworthy, dishonourable, underhand(ed), venal, Colloq crooked: He got off by bribing a corrupt judge. 2 debased, depraved, perverted, subverted, evil, wicked, degenerate, degraded: The inhabitants practised a corrupt form of Christianity. --v. 3 debase, pervert, subvert, degrade, deprave, warp: A funds manager could easily be corrupted by all that money. 4 adulterate, contaminate, pollute, taint, defile, infect, spoil, poison: Drainage from the site has corrupted the purity of the water. 5 bribe, suborn, buy (off): He thought he knew a juror who might be corrupted.
costume n. dress, clothing, attire, clothes, garb, apparel, raiment, garments, outfit, vestment, livery, uniform, kit, Colloq gear, togs, get-up; Slang rags, US threads: What kind of costume is Celia wearing to the fancy-dress ball?
cottage n. hut, shack, cabin, bungalow, shanty, Literary cot; US and Canadian lodge, chalet: She's going to stay at our cottage for a week.
council n. 1 assembly, meeting, conclave, conference, synod, consistory, convention, congress, congregation, gathering, convocation, US caucus: The council voted to ban nuclear arms. 2 board, ministry, directors, cabinet, panel, committee, body, directorate, directory, caucus: She was elected to the council last year.
counsellor n. adviser or advisor, counsel, lawyer, Brit counsellor-at-law, barrister, US counselor, counselor-at-law, attorney: We have retained Vestley and Stock as our counsellors.
counter n. 1 token, disc, chip, piece, marker: She placed three counters on the number 14. 2 table, bar: We do not serve beer at this counter.
counterfeit adj. 1 forged, fake, fraudulent, imitation, bogus, spurious, Colloq phoney or US also phony: The bank reported the counterfeit money to the police. 2 make-believe, sham, pretended, pretend, feigned, insincere, fake, faked, false, artificial, meretricious, pseudo, factitious, synthetic, unreal, simulated: You were warned about his counterfeit sincerity. --n. 3 fake, imitation, forgery, reproduction, Colloq phoney or US also phony: This is the original deed, that one is a counterfeit. --v. 4 forge, copy, reproduce, falsify, imitate; Slang hang paper: He made a living counterfeiting passports. 5 feign, pretend, simulate, put on, fake: The suspects have shown signs of wealth that are difficult to counterfeit.
country n. 1 nation, state, power; territory, realm: How many countries belong to the British Commonwealth? 2 (native) land, homeland, fatherland, motherland, mother country: I would gladly fight for my country. 3 countryside, rural area or surroundings, provinces, hinterlands; mountains, woods, wilderness, outback, Colloq sticks, US boondocks, boonies: We are spending our holiday in the country.
courage n. bravery, valour, boldness, intrepidity, gallantry, dauntlessness, daring, fearlessness, heroism, nerve, Colloq grit, guts, pluck, spunk, US moxie, sand, Slang Brit bottle: She had the courage to face the two of them alone.
course n. 1 path, way, orbit, route, run, track, ambit, line, circuit, passage: We continued on our course. The sun pursued its fiery course across the heavens. 2 movement, progress, headway, advance, progression; speed: The driver slackens his course at the curves. 3 procedure, process, performance, routine, conduct, order, practice, dispatch or despatch, execution: In the course of her duties, she handles a great deal of money. 4 direction, tack: If we stay on this course we'll run aground. 5 class, lecture, seminar, programme: You should sign up for a course in English grammar. 6 of course. naturally, surely, certainly, positively, obviously, definitely, assuredly, by all means; undoubtedly, indubitably, without (a) doubt, no doubt, Colloq US sure: Of course I'll go to the theatre with you!
courtesy n. politeness, elegance, courtliness, politesse, courteousness, respect, respectfulness, good manners, formality, civility, ceremony: I much appreciated the courtesy with which they treated me.
coward n. poltroon, craven, dastard, sissy or cissy, baby, mouse, milksop; Scaramouch or Scaramouche; Colloq chicken, Slang yellow-belly; US and Canadian milquetoast: He's such a coward that he's afraid of his own shadow.
cowardly adj. timid, fearful, frightened, afraid, scared, faint-hearted, timorous, chicken-hearted, chicken-livered, lily-livered, white-livered, craven, namby-pamby, dastardly, pusillanimous, vitelline, Slang yellow, yellow-bellied: The cowardly rascals ran from the battle.
crack n. 1 break, fracture, chink, crevice, rift, gap, flaw, split, fissure, slit, cleft, split, check, rupture, breach: The crack in the dam was caused by an earthquake. 2 snap, report, bang, clap, shot: I ducked when I heard the crack of the rifle. 3 moment, instant, time, second: She gets up at the crack of dawn. --v. 4 snap: He cracks the whip and the horses start up. 5 break, fracture, rupture; shiver, shatter, smash: He fell backwards on the pavement and cracked his skull. 6 fissure, craze, crackle, US alligator: The heat of the sun caused the paint to crack.
crafty adj. artful, cunning, clever, shrewd, foxy, canny, wily, sly, scheming, calculating, designing, plotting, tricky, sneaky, deceitful, shifty, dodgy, guileful, insidious, double-dealing, two-faced, duplicitous, treacherous: That crafty beggar has made off with my life's savings.
cram v. 1 pack, stuff, overstuff, overcrowd, jam, fill: The car was crammed to the top with suitcases. 2 study, burn the midnight oil, Literary lucubrate, Colloq grind, Brit swot: Bob can't go out because he's cramming for an exam.
crank n. 1 eccentric, character, oddity, Colloq nut; Slang Brit nutter, nutcase: Pay no attention to Jason, he's just a crank. 2 monomaniac, zealot, fanatic: The restaurant is patronized mainly by health-food cranks.
cranny n. chink, crevice, crack, fissure, check, fracture, break, furrow, split, cleft: Flowers grew from the crannies in the ancient wall.
crawl v. 1 creep, worm, wriggle, wiggle, squirm; edge: A spider is crawling on your collar. 2 inch, creep, drag: For a solid hour the cars just crawled along at a snail's pace. 3 cower, cringe, grovel, toady, fawn: Don't worry, he'll soon come crawling, begging you to take him back. 4 teem, abound, swarm, be overrun or swamped: The scene of the crime crawled with police.
crazy adj. 1 mad, insane, demented, deranged, unbalanced, unhinged, lunatic, non compos mentis, daft, certifiable, mental, touched (in the head), out of one's mind or head, mad as a March hare or hatter, maddened, crazed, Colloq barmy or balmy, cuckoo, cracked, crackers, crack-brained, dotty, daffy, dippy, gaga, goofy, crackpot, loony, off one's rocker, have a screw loose, screwy, batty, bats, bats in the belfry, Brit barmy (in the crumpet), potty, bonkers, round the bend or twist, off one's chump, doolally, US off one's trolley, out of one's gourd, screwball, nuts, nutty (as a fruit cake); Slang bananas, US out to lunch, meshuga, flaky, flaked-out, (plumb) loco: His wife thinks he's crazy to want to walk around the world. 2 silly, absurd, foolish, nonsensical, inane, ridiculous, preposterous, laughable, risible, ludicrous, asinine, stupid, moronic, imbecile or imbecilic, idiotic, feeble-minded, hare-brained, Colloq crackpot: Someone came up with a crazy idea of a square tennis ball to slow down the game. 3 impractical, impracticable, unworkable, unsound, pointless, imprudent, rash, reckless, ill-considered: Columbus' plan to sail round the world was thought to be crazy at the time. 4 enthusiastic, eager, avid, zealous, keen, excited: I'm really crazy about windsurfing. 5 infatuated, keen on or about, wild, mad, Colloq dotty, US nuts, nutty; Slang US ape: Marjorie, I'm absolutely crazy about you.
creation n. 1 beginning, origin, birth, start, inception, genesis, making, formation: The creation of the lake began with the damming of the stream. 2 the world, the universe, the cosmos: He was the most wicked man in the history of all creation.
creator n. 1 originator, author, initiator, founder, father, inventor, architect, designer, framer, maker, prime mover: The creator of this painting must have been a genius. 2 God, Supreme Being, the Deity: Some day you will have to answer to your Creator for your sins.
credit n. 1 belief, faith, trust, credence: I don't give much credit to what they say. 2 creditation, acknowledgement or acknowledgment, attribution, ascription: Credit for inventing the telegraph goes to Guglielmo Marconi. 3 trust, confidence, faithfulness, reliability, trustworthiness, honesty, probity, dependability; solvency: Her credit rating at the bank is excellent. 4 honour, commendation, praise, tribute, acclaim, esteem, recognition, merit: The team's victory in the finals has brought credit to the school. --v. 5 believe, trust, hold accountable, put or place one's faith or confidence in, have faith or confidence in, rely on, accept, depend on or upon: If you credit the Bible, the world was created in six days. 6 ascribe, acknowledge, attribute, assign; impute: The goal was credited to Barnes.
creek n. 1 Brit inlet, bay, cove, harbour: Overnight we moored in a little creek, sheltered from the sea. 2 US and Canadian stream, streamlet, brook, rivulet, rill, runnel, run, burn: We used to fish in the creek behind the house.
crescent n. 1 demi-lune, semi-lune, lune, lunette: The moon's crescent hung low in the western sky. --adj. 2 crescent-shaped, demi-lune, semi-lune, biconcave, concavo-concave: For chopping, the chef uses a crescent blade that just fits into a curved wooden bowl.
crevasse n. gorge, chasm, abyss, ravine, fissure, crack, furrow: One of the climbers fell into a crevasse in the glacier.
crew n. group, company, band, troupe, party, gang, team, corps, body: We shall need a crew of twenty for tomorrow's job.
criminal adj. 1 illegal, unlawful, illicit, lawless, dishonest, Colloq crooked: Arson is a criminal act. We have to weed out the criminal element. 2 wicked, evil, bad, wrong, corrupt, vile, black, immoral, amoral, sinful, villainous, iniquitous, flagitious, depraved; disgraceful, reprehensible: The way they treat their children is absolutely criminal. --n. 3 felon, convict, lawbreaker, outlaw, culprit, offender, miscreant, malefactor, wrongdoer, villain, scoundrel, knave, blackguard; gangster, Mafioso, desperado, racketeer; hoodlum, thug, hooligan, tough, ruffian, terrorist, Colloq roughneck, bad guy, black hat, bad hat, baddie or baddy, crook; Slang hood, US mobster: He was arrested for consorting with known criminals. cringe v. 1 cower, wince, flinch, quail, recoil, blench, tremble, quiver, quake or shake in one's boots or shoes, shrink: That dirty little coward cringed even when they called his name. 2 defer, kowtow, grovel, crawl, fawn, boot-lick, US apple-polish; Slang kiss someone's arse or US and Canadian ass, Taboo slang brown-nose: The man cringed before the magistrate, his eyes downcast, tugging his forelock.
crippled adj. 1 disabled, lame, handicapped, incapacitated; weakened, weak, debilitated: He takes care of his crippled mother. The crippled party platform succumbed to attack from the far left. 2 damaged, immobilized, inoperative: The crew stayed with the crippled vessel.
crisp adj. 1 brittle, crunchy, friable, breakable, crumbly, frangible: Keep the biscuits crisp in this special jar. 2 curly, crispy, crinkly, frizzy, frizzled: His hair is brown and crisp, just like his father's. 3 US chip: I'll bet you can't eat just one potato crisp.
criticism n. 1 judgement, evaluation, appraisal, analysis, assessment, estimation, valuation: Their criticism was generally favourable. 2 censure, disapproval, condemnation, disparagement: I was very upset by her criticism of my behaviour. 3 critique, review, commentary: My sister writes the theatre criticisms for the local paper.
crooked adj. 1 criminal, dishonest, illegal, unlawful, illicit, wrong, perverse, Slang Brit bent: Selling a stolen painting is crooked. 2 bent, bowed, askew, awry, deformed, distorted, contorted, lopsided, twisted, misshapen, disfigured, warped, gnarled: Because of the constant west wind, the trees are all crooked.
crouch v. bend (down), squat (down), hunker down, stoop (down): If you crouch down, no one will see you in the bushes.
crown n. 1 coronet, diadem, wreath, fillet, circlet, tiara: The princess wore a golden crown set with jewels. 2 sovereignty, rule, dominion, authority, government, realm, rulership, jurisdiction: They discovered many lands and annexed them to the Crown. 3 monarch, ruler, sovereign, potentate; king, queen, emperor, empress, His or Her Majesty, His or Her Highness: The Crown has very little real power these days. --v. 4 enthrone, Colloq US coronate: He was crowned on the death of his father. 5 cap, top, surmount, culminate, climax, consummate, fulfil, reward: All her years of practising the violin were finally crowned with success.
crude adj. 1 unrefined, raw, natural, original, unprocessed: Those are the prices of crude oil, not the petrol used in cars. 2 rough, unpolished, rudimentary, immature, undeveloped, primitive, unrefined, unfinished: At this stage, she has only a crude idea of the design. 3 rough, coarse, rude, unrefined, uncouth, crass, gross, rustic, uncivil: Don't you despise his crude manners? 4 blunt, brusque, unsophisticated, inconsiderate, tasteless, indelicate, offensive, improper, vulgar: How crude of him to ask her how long since her husband had 'croaked'!
cruise v. 1 sail, coast, travel, journey, voyage; yacht: We cruise in the Caribbean during the winter. --n. 2 sail, voyage, journey, boat or yachting trip: I took a three-day cruise around the Isle of Wight.
crumble v. disintegrate, fragment, break apart, break up, shiver, come to pieces: Acid rain has caused the stone faade to crumble. In the face of the attack, his resolve crumbled.
crunch v. 1 chew, bite, crush, grind, munch: He crunched the nuts between his teeth. --n. 2 moment of truth, decision time, crisis, critical moment, showdown, crux, juncture: You can count on me when it comes to the crunch.
crush n. 1 break, smash, crunch, pulverize, shiver, splinter, pound, grind: The vandals crushed the statue to bits with hammers. 2 crumple, wrinkle, crease, crinkle, rumple, mangle: The shirts came back crushed from the laundry. 3 squash, pulp, mash, squeeze, compress, press: The machine crushes the oranges and extracts the juice. 4 overcome, defeat, conquer, vanquish, beat, thrash; subdue, put down, quash, quell, overwhelm, squelch, suppress, repress: The title-holder crushed the challenger. The junta crushed the uprising without bloodshed. 5 abash, embarrass, shame, mortify, depress, devastate, humiliate, disgrace: She was really crushed when he refused to see her. --n. 6 press, pressure, crowd: When the fire alarm sounded, I was almost caught in the crush of the people trying to escape.
crypt n. tomb, vault, mausoleum, sepulchre, grave, catacomb; cellar, basement: He is buried in the crypt of St Paul's.
cuddle v. 1 snuggle up (to), nestle or huddle (against): She cuddled the baby closer to her. 2 caress, embrace, fondle, hug, pet, bill and coo, make love (to), Colloq neck, smooch, Australian and New Zealand smoodge or smooge, Slang US make out (with), watch the submarine races: The couple were cuddling in the back seat. --n. 3 hug, embrace, snuggle: Give us a cuddle, Janie.
culprit n. 1 accused, prisoner: How does the culprit plead? 2 offender, criminal, malefactor, wrongdoer: They caught the culprit red-handed.
cultivated adj. sophisticated, cultured, educated, refined, elegant, soign(e), civilized, polished, aristocratic, urbane, suave, cosmopolitan: She prefers to go out with cultivated older men.
curb n. 1 check, restraint, control: You should put a curb on your tongue. --v. 2 check, restrain, bridle, control, contain, repress, subdue, suppress: Try to curb your exuberance.
curiosity n. 1 inquisitiveness, interest: His insatiable curiosity next led him to study astronomy. 2 snooping, prying, peeping, intrusiveness, meddlesomeness, interference, Colloq nosiness, Nosy Parkerism: Curiosity killed the cat. 3 curio, oddity, rarity, conversation piece, objet de virtu or vertu, objet d'art, found object; bric--brac or bric-a-brac, knick-knack, bauble, trinket, gewgaw: The shop sells curiosities, like goblets made from ostrich eggs. In those days, every house had a curiosity cabinet.
current adj. 1 contemporary, ongoing, present, contemporaneous, simultaneous, coeval: The current issue of the magazine came out last week. 2 prevalent, prevailing, common, popular, accepted, known, widespread, reported, in circulation, going round or around, bruited about, widely known, in the air, present-day: The current theories reject those of a decade ago. 3 fashionable, stylish, la mode, modish, in vogue, latest, up to date, Colloq trendy: The current trend is towards shorter skirts. 4 US up to date, in the know, informed, advised, in touch, aware, posted, au courant, au fait, on the qui vive: The Financial Journal keeps me current on stock prices. --n. 5 stream, flow, undercurrent: The canoe was caught in the current and carried away. 6 course, progress, tendency, tenor, drift, trend, inclination, mainstream: The current of public opinion is turning in favour of policies that are more environmentally responsible.
cursory adj. superficial, hasty, hurried, passing, quick, slapdash, perfunctory, rapid, summary: She gave the note a cursory glance and threw it away.
curtail v. shorten, abbreviate, cut short, abridge, diminish, reduce, cut, cut back, cut down: Both our working week and our salaries were curtailed.
custody n. 1 care, custodianship, safe keeping, protection, charge, guardianship, keeping: She was granted custody of the children. 2 imprisonment, detention, incarceration, confinement: The police took three troublemakers into custody.
customary adj. 1 usual, normal, conventional, routine, everyday, common, commonplace, ordinary: Is it customary for them to eat lunch on the premises? 2 accustomed, habitual, regular, traditional, wonted: I took the customary way home.
cut v. 1 gash, slash, slit; open: I cut my finger on the glass. 2 slice, cut off, carve: Please cut me a thick piece of steak. 3 Often, cut up. hurt, wound, pain, upset, grieve, distress, aggrieve, slight, insult, offend, affront: I was really all cut up by her nasty remarks. 4 trim, snip, lop, clip, crop, shorten, shear, chop off; mow; dock: The barber has cut too much off the sides. 5 abbreviate, shorten, crop, condense, abridge, edit, cut back, reduce, cut down; epitomize, abstract, digest, summarize, curtail: Cut this script to make it fit into the allotted time. 6 dilute, thin, water (down), weaken; degrade, adulterate: They cut the rum with water to make grog. 7 avoid, fail to attend, eschew: Cynthia cut classes three days this week. 8 lower, reduce, lessen, cut back (on), cut down (on), slash, diminish, decrease, retrench (on), curtail: We shall have to cut expenses if the company is to survive. 9 conclude, settle, agree: Once the deal was cut, there was no going back on it. 10 prepare, draw, write, sign: We'll have accounting cut your cheque and send it at once. 11 cut back. a See 5, above. b See 8, above. 12 Often, cut dead. snub, slight, spurn, shun, ignore, give the cold shoulder (to): Cornelia had the gall to cut Jason dead at his own party. 13 cut down. a fell, chop or hew down: Don't cut down that tree! b kill, cut off, murder, assassinate: He was cut down in his prime. 14 cut in. interrupt, intrude, interfere, Colloq butt in: Please don't cut in on our conversation. 15 cut off. a cleave, sever, chop or lop or hack off: Cut the branch off near the trunk. b intercept, interrupt, discontinue, end, stop, terminate, break off: There was a click and our phone conversation was cut off. c separate, sever, split, estrange: He's been cut off from the family for years. d disinherit, disown, reject: She was cut off with a shilling. 16 cut out. a delete, remove, excise, strike or cross out, edit out, omit, cut, kill, Technical dele: The publishers made me cut out parts of the book that they were advised might be libellous. b extract, excise, remove, resect: My appendix was cut out years ago. c stop, cease, desist (from), quit: Whenever it rains the engine cuts out. Cut out the clowning around. d suit, equip, fit: I don't think Cyril's cut out to be a lumberjack. e plan, prepare, ready, organize, destine: He certainly has his work cut out for him! 17 cut up. a chop (up), dice, cube, mince, cut, divide (up), carve (up): Cut the celery up very small. b misbehave: The football supporters began to cut up rough. 18 cut up rough. get angry, lose one's temper, show resentment: The driver began to cut up rough when I refused to pay. --n. 19 gash, slash, incision, nick, wound: I got a nasty cut from that razor. 20 share, portion, percentage, piece, dividend, commission: Blatchley gets a cut on every car we sell. 21 reduction, cut-back, curtailment, decrease: The government's cuts in spending affect us all. 22 deletion, excision, omission: The author refuses to approve the cuts in the script. 23 affront, insult, offence, slight, snub, dig, jibe, slap in the face, cold shoulder: The unkindest cut was the accusation of cheating. 24 engraving, plate: This cut is too badly worn for use now. 25 artwork, picture, illustration, plate, drawing, line cut, line engraving, half-tone: The book has 300 cuts and only 20 pages of text. --adj. 26 separated, detached, severed: I prefer cut flowers to a plant. 27 abridged, abbreviated, cut-down, shortened, edited, curtailed: The magazine published a cut version of the novel. 28 reduced, diminished, lowered, discounted: This shop sells everything at cut prices. 29 cut and dried. a clear-cut, settled, arranged, decided, predetermined, prearranged: Unfortunately, the solution to this problem is not cut and dried. b stale, unoriginal, trite, hackneyed, old; dull, boring: His suggestions for improvement are always cut and dried. c manufactured, automatic, unchanging, unchanged: Mr Mackay will again present his old cut and dried plan.
cutthroat n. 1 murderer, pirate, killer, thug, hatchet man, gunman, assassin, Slang US gunsel, torpedo, hit man: Those streets are frequented by thieves and cutthroats. --adj. 2 merciless, ruthless, unmerciful, unprincipled, relentless, pitiless, brutal, cold-blooded, cold-hearted: Her cutthroat tactics call for dismissing all executives. 3 murderous, homicidal, lethal, deadly, barbaric, fierce, cruel, barbarous, savage, inhuman, brutal, brutish, violent, ferocious, bloodthirsty, sanguinary, bloody, feral, vicious, truculent: He was once a member of a gang of cutthroat hoodlums.
cycle n. 1 round, rotation, circle, course; series, sequence, run, succession, pattern: We must learn to break the continuous cycles of war and peace. --v. 2 recur, return, rotate, recycle, circle: The water from the fountain is cycled back to the reservoir.
dabble v. 1 dip, splash, spatter, sprinkle, bespatter, besprinkle, bedabble: I sat on the rock, dabbling my toes in the pool. 2 dabble in or with or at. tinker, trifle (with), potter or US putter, dally, Colloq fool (around or about or with or about with): She's not seriously interested in music - she just dabbles in it.
daft adj. 1 foolish, silly, giddy, senseless, absurd, ridiculous, stupid, nonsensical, fatuous, fatuitous, imbecile or imbecilic, idiotic, moronic, obtuse, cretinous, boneheaded, fat-headed, dim-witted, witless, asinine, attocerebral, weak-minded, simple-minded, brainless, feeble-minded, feather-brained, rattle-brained, hare-brained, slow-witted, halfwitted, fat-witted, addle-pated, addle-brained, Brit gormless; Colloq dumb, dopey or dopy, daffy; Slang cock-eyed, US cockamamie or cockamamy, running on 'Empty': He has the daft idea that he will be appointed managing director. 2 See crazy, 1, above. 3 daft about. mad about, infatuated with, besotted by or with, sweet on, Colloq nuts about, crazy about: Those two are daft about each other.
daily adj. 1 diurnal, circadian, everyday, quotidian: The daily papers reported nothing about the fire. 2 ordinary, common, commonplace, everyday, routine, regular: Her trip to the market has become a daily occurrence. --adv. 3 constantly, always, habitually, day after day, regularly, every day, continually, continuously: The trains run daily between here and London.
damage n. 1 harm, injury, hurt, impairment, mutilation, destruction, devastation: Fortunately, there was little damage from the storm. 2 expense, price, cost; bill, invoice, US check: At the restaurant, the damage came to 50. 3 damages. compensation, reparation, indemnity: We won the suit and were awarded damages of 10,000 for defamation of character. --v. 4 harm, hurt, injure; wound; mutilate, disfigure, mar, deface; wreck, ruin, spoil, impair: Although the car was badly damaged, the passengers escaped unharmed. Will this news damage your chances of a promotion?
damnable adj. awful, terrible, horrible, horrid, atrocious, abominable, dreadful, hideous, execrable, accursed, cursed, detestable, hateful, abhorrent, despicable, loathsome, wicked, sinful, offensive, heinous, pernicious, infernal, malicious, malevolent, outrageous, foul, rotten, base, vile, odious: He has been telling the most damnable lies about her since they broke up.
dampen v. 1 damp, moisten, sprinkle, bedew: Dampen the clothes before ironing them. 2 stifle, deaden, damp, check, chill, cool, restrain, retard, lessen, diminish, reduce, suppress, abate, moderate, allay, subdue, temper, dull, discourage: His constant chattering on about himself dampened her ardour.
dandy n. 1 fop, coxcomb, (gay) blade, beau, gallant, lady-killer, ladies' or lady's man, rake, Colloq swell, clothes-horse, Brit toff, blood, US dude: He was a great dandy, and spent hours dressing every day. --adj. 2 fine, splendid, first-rate, great, marvellous, neat, spectacular: Penny's father bought her a dandy new car.
dangerous adj. 1 risky, perilous, hazardous, unsafe, precarious, rickety, Colloq chancy, iffy: Rock-climbing is very dangerous. 2 threatening, menacing, harmful, treacherous: He is a dangerous criminal, wanted for murder.
dangle v. 1 hang (down), droop, depend, swing, sway: The rope dangled from the top of the flag-pole. 2 flaunt, brandish, wave, flourish: Competitors often dangle big salary increases in front of those who agree to leave our company. 3 wait, Slang cool one's heels: They have kept me dangling for weeks for their decision.
dapple adj. 1 spotted, dotted, mottled, speckled, flecked, dappled; brindled; pied, piebald, skewbald, paint, flea-bitten, US pinto: Take the chestnut mare - I'll ride the dapple grey. --v. 2 spot, dot, mottle, speckle, bespeckle, stipple: Dapple paint on the wall with a sponge to get a mottled effect.
daredevil n. 1 exhibitionist, showman, stunt man, stunt woman; adventurer, soldier of fortune, Colloq show-off: William finally got a job as a daredevil in the circus. --adj. 2 reckless, rash, death-defying, impulsive, daring, dashing, impetuous, incautious, imprudent, wild, foolhardy, madcap, devil-may-care; audacious, bold, brave, fearless, gallant, courageous, intrepid: Do you consider ski-jumping a sport or an example of daredevil madness?
dark adj. 1 unlit, unlighted, unilluminated, ill-lighted, ill-lit, sunless; black, Stygian, pitch-dark, inky, jet-black: We cowered in a recess in the dark cave. 2 dim, murky, tenebrous, shady, shadowy: I could scarcely see ahead of me in the dark forest. 3 gloomy, dismal, dreary, dull, drab, subfuscous, subfusc, bleak, cheerless, mournful, dour, pessimistic, sombre, doleful, joyless, grim, sad, melancholy, sorrowful: Why do you always look at the dark side of things? 4 evil, wicked, vile, base, foul, iniquitous, nefarious, black-hearted, villainous, sinister, satanic, devilish, hellish: Nostradamus predicted that dark forces would overrun the world. 5 murky, overcast, cloudy, threatening, black, dusky, louring or lowering; foggy, misty; US glowering: Another dark day on the moor and I thought I'd go mad. 6 mysterious, deep, profound, incomprehensible, enigmatic, puzzling, impenetrable, unfathomable, abstruse, recondite, arcane, obscure: She took her dark secret to the grave. 7 hidden, concealed, secret, occult, mystic(al), cryptic: The true reason for his leaving was always kept dark in the family. 8 brunette; black, swarthy, brown; (sun)tanned, Old-fashioned swart: One is fair with dark hair, the other has dark skin. 9 ignorant, unenlightened, benighted: Our culture passed through a dark phase before the Renaissance. --n. 10 night, night-time, nightfall: We waited till dark to make good our escape. 11 darkness, blackness, gloom, gloominess, murk, murkiness: At fifty, isn't he a bit old to be afraid of the dark? 12 obscurity, ignorance: She was always kept in the dark about his true identity.
dash v. 1 crash, smash, shatter, break, shiver, fragment, split; destroy, ruin, spoil, frustrate, obliterate: The mirror was dashed to smithereens when it fell. The ship didn't see our raft, and our hopes of rescue were dashed. 2 hurl, toss, throw, fling, cast, pitch, Colloq chuck: We drank a toast, then dashed our glasses into the fireplace. 3 rush, run, dart, spring, bolt, bound, race, sprint; hasten, fly, hurry, speed: I'll have to dash to catch my train. 4 dash off. scribble: I've just dashed off a note to mother. --n. 5 dart, bolt, rush, run, spurt, spring, bound, sprint: He made a dash for the door but it was too late. 6 flourish, lan, flair, liveliness, style, panache, spirit, brio, verve, zest, spice; ardour, fervour, vigour, energy: She is known for her beauty as well as her dash and courage. 7 bit, pinch, soupon, hint, suggestion, touch, trace, tinge, taste, drop, piece, Colloq smidgen or smidgin, US tad: Add a dash of nutmeg at the end.
data n. facts, information, statistics, figures, details, matter, observations, material(s); text; evidence: We shall process the data on the computer and print out the results.
daunt v. intimidate, cow, discourage, dishearten, dispirit, unnerve, shake, upset, disconcert, discomfit, put off, awe, overawe, appal, alarm, threaten, frighten, terrify, scare, terrorize: He was daunted by the prospect of facing the entire council.
dawdle v. linger, loiter, straggle, delay, procrastinate, dally, lounge, laze, idle, lag, lie about, waste time, Colloq dilly-dally, shilly-shally: We have to catch the next train, so stop dawdling.
day n. 1 daytime, daylight, broad daylight, light of day: Sunrise quickly turned night into day. 2 time, hour, age, period, era, epoch, date, prime, heyday; lifetime: Her day will come. In his day, there was no telephone.
daylight n. 1 sunlight, sun, sunshine, light: Coming from the cave, we were blinded by the daylight. 2 open, broad daylight, light of day, full view, full knowledge, clarity: We must bring his treachery out into the daylight.
dazzle v. 1 impress, bewitch, enchant, charm, beguile, intrigue, captivate, fascinate, spellbind, entrance, hypnotize, mesmerize: Every man in the room was dazzled by Mrs d'Arcy's brilliant wit and good looks. 2 See daze, def 1. --n. 3 brilliance, splendour, magnificence, sparkle, glitter, Slang razzle-dazzle, razzmatazz: Many actors are lured to New York by the dazzle of Broadway.
dead adj. 1 deceased, defunct, extinct, gone, departed, late, lifeless, no more, Colloq done for, Slang Brit gone for a burton: Both his parents are dead, and his only brother lives in Australia. Lycidas is dead, dead ere his prime. 2 insensate, insensible, numb, paralysed, benumbed, unfeeling: After the accident, my left thumb was completely dead. 3 insensible, unconscious, out, dead to the world, deathlike, deathly: At the news of her son, she fell in a dead faint. 4 insensitive, unemotional, unfeeling, emotionless, apathetic, lukewarm, cool, cold, frigid, unresponsive, unsympathetic, indifferent, unconcerned, uninterested; numb, wooden, callous, hardened, impervious, inured, inert: He has always been dead to others' problems. 5 out, smothered, extinguished: The fire is dead. 6 inanimate, lifeless, inert, inorganic: Dead stones speak volumes to the geologist. 7 extinct, obsolete, perished, past, outmoded, disused, expired, pass: Latin is a dead language. 8 barren, unfruitful, infertile, unproductive: That area off the coast is dead as far as fishing goes. 9 tired (out), exhausted, worn out, fatigued, tired out, spent, collapsing, in a state of collapse, Slang bushed, beat, Brit knackered, US and Canadian pooped: We were completely dead after the hike into town. 10 dull, lustreless, flat, neutral, vapid, empty, bland, colourless, grey, beige, dun: The walls of the prison were painted a dead white. 11 stagnant, motionless, still, standing, static, inert, unmoving, inactive, quiet, calm: There were small pools of dead water covered with a green slime. Without a breath of air stirring, the boat was dead in the water. 12 boring, dull, tedious, tiresome, monotonous, prosaic, uninteresting, run-of-the-mill, ordinary, commonplace, dry, insipid, bland, flat, two-dimensional, lifeless, stiff, rigid, stony: The play was bad, the performance dead. 13 dull, muffled, deadened, anechoic, unresounding, non-resonant: One room in the laboratory was built to be dead to all sound. 14 complete, entire, total, absolute, downright, thorough, through and through, utter, all-out, out-and-out, unqualified, unrelieved, unbroken, categorical, outright: My investment in the anti-gravity pill has so far been a dead loss. 15 profound, deep: I fell into a dead sleep. 16 sudden, abrupt, complete, full: The train came to a dead stop. 17 certain, sure, unerring, exact, precise, accurate, crack: According to the records, Calamity Jane was a dead shot. --adv. 18 completely, entirely, absolutely, totally, utterly, categorically, thoroughly, unconditionally, unqualifiedly: You are dead right about Pontefract. 19 completely, entirely, absolutely, totally; abruptly, suddenly: He stopped dead in his tracks and stared at me. 20 directly, exactly, precisely: An enormous maelstrom lay dead ahead of the fragile craft. --n. 21 depth(s), extreme, midst, middle: She used to visit his room in the dead of night.
deadlock n. 1 standstill, impasse, stalemate, stand-off, draw, stoppage, Colloq US Mexican stand-off: Union and management negotiators have reached a deadlock on the pension issue. --v. 2 bring or come to a standstill or impasse, stall, stop, halt: The Congress is likely to deadlock on the question of expanding national health benefits.
deaf adj. 1 hard of hearing, stone-deaf: Sean is slightly deaf in his left ear. 2 unhearing, unheedful, heedless, insensible, insensitive, impervious, indifferent, oblivious, unresponsive, unmoved, unconcerned, unyielding: The judge was deaf to all appeals for clemency.
dealer n. trader, businessman, businesswoman, merchant, tradesman, retailer, shopkeeper, vendor, merchandiser; wholesaler, jobber, distributor, stockist, supplier; broker, agent, salesman, US storekeeper: He has been a dealer in precious gems for years.
dear adj. 1 beloved, loved, adored, darling, precious, cherished, prized, valued, treasured, favoured, favourite, pet, esteemed, admired, venerated, honoured: He was my nearest and dearest friend. 2 expensive, costly, high-priced, highly priced, Colloq pricey: Tomatoes are much too dear at this time of the year. --n. 3 darling, sweetheart, beloved, love, true-love, sweet, honey, precious, pet, favourite, treasure, precious, Colloq sweetie, sweetie-pie, Slang baby: My dear, I hope we'll be together always. --adv. 4 dearly; at great cost or expense, at a high or excessive price: That little error will cost you dear, my friend.
dearth n. scarcity, want, need, lack, deficiency, sparseness or sparsity, scantiness, insufficiency, inadequacy, shortage, paucity, exiguity, poverty, exiguousness; absence: There is a dearth of major roles for black actors.
deathless adj. eternal, everlasting, immortal, undying, imperishable, permanent, unending, timeless, never-ending: In his opinion, his novel was another example of his deathless prose.
debatable adj. controversial, arguable, questionable, doubtful, dubious, problematic or problematical, disputable, open or subject to dispute or doubt or question, in dispute or doubt or question, moot, polemic or polemical, unsure, uncertain, unsettled, undecided: Whether he is the best person for the job is debatable.
debonair adj. 1 suave, soign(e), elegant, urbane, refined, dapper, genteel, well-bred, courteous, civil, mannerly, gracious, polite, affable, obliging, pleasant, Colloq smooth: Despite his vicious temper, he was most debonair in company. 2 carefree, insouciant, gay, nonchalant, light-hearted, dashing, charming, cheerful, buoyant, jaunty, sprightly: Being handsome and debonair, he was much sought after by hostesses.
dbut n. 1 premire, introduction, initiation, inauguration, launch or launching, coming out: The young soprano's dbut at La Scala was a triumph. --v. 2 launch, come out, enter, appear: His plan is to dbut with a zither accompaniment.
decay v. 1 a decline, wane, ebb, dwindle, diminish, decrease: The magnetic field rapidly decays when the power is removed. b decline, waste away, atrophy, weaken, wither, degenerate, deteriorate, disintegrate; crumble: Her great beauty decayed quickly. 2 rot, decompose, moulder, putrefy, spoil; turn, go bad, go off: The flesh has decayed and only a skeleton remains. --n. 3 decline, weakening, failing, fading, deterioration, decadence, degeneration, wasting, atrophy, dilapidation, disintegration, collapse; downfall: The buildings were in an advanced state of decay. 4 rot, rotting, decomposition, mould, putrefaction, mortification: The decay has weakened the timbers supporting the bridge.
deceitful adj. dishonest, underhand(ed), untrustworthy, misleading, crooked, insincere, false, fraudulent, counterfeit, disingenuous, lying, mendacious, untruthful; wily, crafty, sly, cunning, scheming, guileful, artful, sneaky, double-dealing, two-faced, hypocritical, duplicitous, Colloq phoney or US also phony: It was deceitful of you to pretend you loved her when all you wanted was her money.
decent adj. 1 becoming, suitable, appropriate, proper, seemly, fitting: Despite the life she led, the woman should have a decent burial. 2 seemly, decorous, tasteful, dignified, mannerly, nice, clean, respectable, polite, modest, presentable, acceptable: Hereafter, you will use only decent language when speaking to me! 3 adequate, acceptable, passable, fair, competent, mediocre, middling, fair to middling, moderate, respectable, not bad, ordinary, so so, not outstanding, unimpressive, average, neither here nor there, all right, reasonable, tolerable, satisfactory, good enough, Colloq OK or okay: Sales in the first quarter were decent but hardly outstanding. 4 courteous, proper, right, fair, honest, honourable, friendly, considerate, gracious, nice, thoughtful, obliging, kind, generous, accommodating: You can count on David to do the decent thing. 5 chaste, pure, virtuous, modest, well-bred, decorous, well brought up, nice, respectable: Caroline is a decent girl, but no great brain or beauty.
deceptive adj. 1 misleading, false, illusory, deceiving, unreliable: He has the look of an athlete, but appearances can be deceptive. 2 fraudulent, deceitful, dishonest, untruthful, fake, false, shifty, fallacious, specious, spurious, bogus, counterfeit, pseudo, sophistical; tricky, dodgy, evasive, elusive, slippery, Colloq phoney or US also phony: The bank is being deceptive about his credit rating.
decided adj. 1 definite, pronounced, marked, unmistakable, unambiguous, unequivocal, certain, sure, absolute, obvious, clear, evident, unquestionable, unquestioned, indisputable, undisputed, undeniable, irrefutable, incontestable, unqualified, unconditional, incontrovertible, solid: The party was a decided success. 2 fixed, firm, resolute, determined, adamant, stony, unhesitating, decisive, definite, unfaltering, assertive, asseverative, unswerving, unwavering: They are decided in their approval of her plan.
decision n. 1 settlement, determination, resolution, settling, resolving, arbitration: The decision is the umpire's responsibility. 2 judgement, conclusion, resolution, verdict, sentence, ruling, finding, decree, settlement, outcome: According to the decision, the victims will receive compensatory damages. 3 determination, firmness, decidedness, resolve, decisiveness, conclusiveness, steadfastness, purpose, purposefulness: She asserted her position with decision.
declare v. 1 assert, say, offer, submit, affirm, state, aver, asseverate, avow, avouch, profess, protest, swear, claim, proclaim; confirm, certify, ratify: I solemnly declare that the testimony I am to give is true, so help me God. 2 announce, make known, pronounce, decree, rule, proclaim, herald, promulgate, publish, broadcast, trumpet (forth): Robert has declared his intention to make Marianne his wife.
decompose v. 1 disintegrate, separate, fall or come apart, break up or down, take apart, dissect, anatomize, atomize, resolve, decompound, analyse: By absorption the scientists decomposed the green light into yellow and blue. 2 rot, disintegrate, decay, moulder, putrefy; spoil, go off or bad, turn sour: The meat will decompose if it is left outside the fridge.
decoration n. 1 garnish, trim, trimming, adornment, embellishment, ornament, ornamentation, garnishment: There's a bit too much decoration on the cake. 2 medal, laurel, award, badge, colours, order, ribbon, star, garter: Captain Harder won many decorations in the war.
decorum n. 1 etiquette, proper behaviour, propriety, good form, mannerliness, politeness, dignity, gentility, good manners, respectability, courtliness, deportment: The decorum of the meeting was disturbed by rabble-rousers. 2 correctness, propriety, protocol, punctilio, conformity: Please observe proper decorum when visiting the embassy.
decrease v. 1 diminish, reduce, decline, lessen, lower, abate, fall off, shrink, shrivel (up), contract, dwindle, ebb, subside, wane, taper off, de-escalate, slacken, let up, ease (off or up), curtail, cut (down or back), Colloq run out of steam, US run out of gas: Demand for tickets to rock concerts has decreased over the years. The number of applicants for work is decreasing. --n. 2 diminution, reduction, decline, lessening, lowering, abatement, falling off, shrinking, shrivelling, contraction, decrement, dwindling, ebb, subsidence, tapering off, wane, de-escalation, slackening, easing (off or up), curtailment, cut, cut-back: There has been no noticeable decrease in the price of houses in the south-east. Have you noticed the decrease in arrests for dangerous driving?
decrepit adj. 1 feeble, enfeebled, weak, weakened, frail, infirm, wasted, worn out, unfit, debilitated, enervated, disabled, incapacitated, crippled, doddering; out of shape, in bad shape; aged, old, elderly, ancient, superannuated, senescent, senile, Colloq gaga: The old man was so decrepit he was unable to lift the cup to his lips. 2 dilapidated, deteriorated, crumbling, decayed, decaying, withered, wasted, antiquated, tumbledown, broken-down, rickety, unstable, shaky, ramshackle, derelict, creaking, creaky, run-down: The barn was so decrepit we had to tear it down.
dedicate v. 1 devote, consecrate, give (up or over), yield, offer, surrender, commit, pledge, assign: She dedicated her life to helping the poor. 2 consecrate, bless, sanctify, hallow: There stands the temple dedicated to Apollo. 3 inscribe; address, assign: This book has been dedicated to you.
deduce v. conclude, infer, understand, gather, assume, presume, derive, draw, work out, divine, glean, take it, suppose, surmise, suspect, Slang Brit suss out: From the tone of his letter she deduced that he was going to change his mind.
deduction n. 1 subtraction, diminution, decrease, reduction, withdrawal, removal, abstraction: After deductions for expenses, you'll be left with nothing. 2 conclusion, inference, finding, reasoning, result: After considering the evidence, my deduction is that the butler didn't do it.
deep adj. 1 extensive, bottomless, abyssal, unfathomable, profound; wide, broad, yawning, chasmal or chasmic: All our supplies were lost in a deep crevasse in the glacier. 2 profound, arcane, recondite, difficult, abstruse, obscure, esoteric, incomprehensible, beyond or past comprehension, impenetrable, unfathomable, inscrutable, mysterious, mystic(al), occult, weighty, serious, Colloq heavy: Religious philosophy is too deep a subject to discuss at breakfast. 3 wise, learned, sage, sagacious, astute, perspicacious, profound, discerning, acute, intense, penetrating, knowledgeable, knowing: Margaret is one of the deepest thinkers on the subject. 4 rapt, absorbed, engrossed, occupied, preoccupied, intent, intense, involved, engaged, immersed, lost, Colloq into: Don't disturb him when he's deep in thought. 5 devious, cunning, shrewd, crafty, canny, clever, knowing, scheming, artful, designing: He thinks there is a deep plot against him. 6 profound, intense, sincere, serious, heartfelt, earnest, ardent, fervent, poignant, deep-rooted: I know of your deep concern for her. 7 low, resonant, booming, resounding, sonorous, rumbling: The deep sound of thunder rolled across the valley. 8 rich, dark, intense, strong: The sky was a deep blue. --n. 9 the deep. the ocean, the main, the sea, the waters, the high seas, the briny (deep), the wave(s), Davy Jones's locker, Neptune's or Poseidon's kingdom or domain: It was midnight on the waters and a storm was on the deep. --adv. 10 deeply, far down, profoundly, intensely, earnestly, heavily: We drank deep of the cooling liquid.
deeply adv. 1 deep, (far) downwards or inwards, way down, deep down: The glacier was deeply fissured. She swam to the surface and inhaled deeply. 2 profoundly, intensely, strongly, powerfully, very much, acutely, keenly, gravely, greatly, to a great extent, extremely, thoroughly, completely, entirely, seriously, severely, irrevocably, unreservedly; passionately, heavily, emotionally: She is deeply involved with a man from Kent. They were deeply committed to the labour movement.
default n. 1 failure, fault, defect, neglect, negligence, dereliction, lapse, oversight, non-performance, non-fulfilment, inaction: We won the case because of their default on the contract. The other contestant failed to appear, so Gordon won the match by default. 2 non-payment, delinquency: Default in the rent may result in eviction. --v. 3 fail, neglect, dishonour, lapse, fall short, come (up) short: He has defaulted on a car payment.
defecate v. void (excrement), move the bowels, excrete, eliminate, evacuate (the bowels), have a (bowel) movement or bm, open the bowels, relieve oneself, Babytalk do number two , Euphemistic go to the men's or ladies' (room), go to the toilet or bathroom or lavatory, excuse (oneself), wash (one's) hands, go to the bathroom, go to the powder-room; Mincing go to the little boys' or girls' room; Colloq Brit spend a penny, Colloq Brit go to the loo, pass a motion, Taboo slang (take a) crap or shit: The first symptoms of bowel disease are problems when defecating.
defective adj. 1 imperfect, faulty, flawed, deficient, broken, out of order, impaired, marred, Colloq on the blink, US on the fritz: The brakes on his car were defective. 2 retarded, simple, feeble-minded, (mentally) deficient or incompetent, backward, subnormal, Brit education ESN ('educationally subnormal'), US education exceptional: Found to be defective, he could not stand trial.
defence n. 1 shelter, protection, cover, guard, safeguard, shield: There is no defence against certain illnesses. 2 fortification, armour, barricade, screen, bulwark, rampart: Shore defences were set up, including barbed wire entanglements and concrete pillboxes. 3 excuse, apology, reason, apologia, explanation; justification, vindication, argument, plea, advocacy, support: His defence for decreasing welfare payments was inadequate. She spoke in defence of nationalizing industry.
defend v. 1 protect, watch over, guard, safeguard, keep (safe), shelter, shield, screen, preserve; fight for: We must defend our civil rights. 2 fortify, arm, secure; fend or ward off, parry: Can you defend your position from attack? 3 plead for, speak or stand up for, stick up for, go to bat for, support, uphold, stand by, champion, stand with or behind or beside, argue for or in behalf of, hold a brief for, espouse: The lawyers defended her right to free speech.
defer v. Often, defer to. give in (to), give ground or way (to), yield (to), submit (to), bow (to), capitulate (to), cede (to), accede (to), acquiesce (to); comply (with), agree (to): I'll defer to your decision in the matter.
defiant adj. challenging, bold, brazen, audacious, daring; rebellious, disobedient, stubborn, recalcitrant, obstinate, refractory, unyielding, insubordinate, mutinous, unruly, self-willed, aggressive, headstrong, contumacious, pugnacious, hostile, belligerent, antagonistic, Slang gutsy, spunky: His defiant attitude towards authority often gets him into trouble.
deficit n. loss, deficiency, shortfall, shortage, default: At the end of the year there was a considerable deficit.
definite adj. 1 specific, particular, exact, pronounced, explicit, express, precise: She came here with a definite purpose. 2 sure, positive, certain, assured, fixed, settled, confirmed: Then we have a definite appointment for two o'clock? 3 clear, plain, well-defined, unambiguous, unequivocal, distinct, clear-cut, obvious: The plans for revision are definite.
definition n. 1 delineation, delimitation, demarcation, outlining; acutance, resolution, distinctness, clarity, sharpness, focus, precision: The definition at the edge of the photograph is fuzzy. 2 description, explanation, explication, clarification, statement (of meaning), sense, meaning: How many definitions are there for the word 'good'?
deflect v. avert, turn away or aside, deviate, change, swerve, switch, divert, shy, veer, sidetrack; fend off: The trajectory of a bullet is deflected by gravity. By deflecting a bit to their left, they managed to regain their original course.
defraud v. cheat, swindle, trick, beguile, cozen, dupe, delude, fool, bilk, fleece, victimize, take in, deceive, humbug, hoodwink, flimflam, Colloq do, diddle, con, slip one over on, put (something) over on, pull a fast one on, fast-talk, rope in,, US take; Slang take for a ride, gyp, rob, rip off, rook; Dialect flam: Shareholders are defrauded by insider trading schemes.
defunct adj. 1 dead, deceased, extinct: The dinosaurs have been defunct for millions of years. 2 inoperative, inapplicable, unused, unusable, invalid, expired, obsolete, pass, dead, expired, non-existent, outmoded, out: Although still on the books, that law is defunct.
degenerate adj. 1 debased, degraded, corrupt, corrupted, vitiated, decadent, depraved, reprobate, dissolute, ignoble, base, low, inferior, vile: He was a degenerate descendant of a once noble lineage. Ben sank into the depths of a degenerate existence after Penelope left him. --v. 2 decline, deteriorate, decay, sink, worsen; backslide, regress, retrogress, weaken, go to the dogs, go to rack and ruin, Colloq go to pot: He felt that art had degenerated since the days of Rembrandt. --n. 3 reprobate, debauchee, wastrel, profligate, rake, rakehell, rou; pervert, deviate: The detective said that only a degenerate could have committed such a crime. degradation n. 1 degeneracy, degeneration, deterioration, corruptness, corruption, vitiation, baseness, depravity, turpitude: History records the moral degradation of a whole society. 2 disrepute, discredit, shame, humiliation, ignominy, dishonour, disgrace, abasement, debasement: He had to face the degradation of an accusation of child molestation.
degrading adj. demeaning, humiliating, shameful, shaming, debasing, lowering, discreditable: Why should you deem selling a degrading occupation?
deign v. condescend, stoop, vouchsafe, concede; yield, agree: Lord Worthington deigned to say good morning to us.
dejected adj. downcast, downhearted, depressed, dispirited, discouraged, despondent, down, low, chap-fallen, crestfallen, melancholy, sad, unhappy, gloomy, glum, miserable, blue, low-spirited, in low spirits, forlorn, woebegone, disconsolate, sorrowful, morose, heartbroken, heavy-hearted, in the doldrums, Colloq down in the dumps, down in the mouth: She was bound to feel dejected when she couldn't find a job.
delectation n. delight, enjoyment, amusement, entertainment, diversion, pleasure, satisfaction: For your delectation, Le Moulin Rouge presents La Goulue!
delete v. erase, cancel, rub or cross out or off, remove, blot out, expunge, efface, eliminate, obliterate, wipe out, eradicate, strike out, cut or edit (out), Publishing blue-pencil; Printing dele: Delete the old address and insert the new one.
deliberately adv. intentionally, on purpose, purposely, wilfully or US willfully, consciously, wittingly, calculatedly, calculatingly, knowingly, pointedly, resolutely, of one's (own) free will, on one's own, with one's eyes (wide) open: She did that deliberately, not by accident.
delicate adj. 1 fragile, breakable, frail, tender, frangible, dainty; perishable, flimsy: This filament is extremely delicate, so be careful. 2 fine, exquisite, dainty, graceful, elegant, subtle: A delicate border of lace sets off the collar. 3 feeble, weak, sickly, frail, debilitated, weakened, enfeebled, unhealthy: Her condition is too delicate for her to be moved. 4 critical, ticklish, sensitive, dangerous, tricky, precarious, touchy, Slang hairy; Colloq sticky: Rescuing the survivors of the avalanche was a delicate operation. 5 dainty, squeamish, queasy, fastidious, prudish, Victorian, finicky, finical, refined, discriminating, discerning, sensitive, puristic, proper, coy, modest, demure: In those days ladies were thought to be too delicate to mention such matters. 6 gradual, subtle, nice, precise, muted, soft, faint, subdued: The delicate shading at the horizon is characteristic of this artist.
delight v. 1 please, gratify, satisfy, gladden, cheer, tickle, amuse, entertain, divert, excite, thrill, captivate, entrance, fascinate: We were delighted to hear the Mighty Allen Art Players once again. 2 delight in. enjoy, appreciate, like, relish (in), savour, revel in, glory in; love, adore; Colloq get a kick from or out of; Slang get off on: She delights in any kind of jazz. --n. 3 pleasure, gratification, joy, satisfaction, enjoyment, delectation; bliss, ecstasy, rapture: She takes great delight in playing practical jokes on her guests. In his dreams he visited the garden of earthly delights.
delightful adj. 1 pleasing, agreeable, pleasurable, enjoyable, joyful, pleasant, lovely, amusing, entertaining, diverting, exciting, thrilling: We spent a delightful evening together. 2 attractive, congenial, winning, winsome, charming, engaging, exciting; captivating, ravishing, fascinating, enchanting: Georgina is one of the most delightful people I have met in a long time.
delirious adj. 1 wild, hysterical, distracted, incoherent, rambling, irrational, raving, ranting, frenzied, frantic, disturbed, demented, deranged, unhinged, mad, insane, crazy, lunatic: He is still delirious and doesn't know what he's saying. 2 wild, excited, crazed, thrilled, ecstatic: She was delirious with joy that Ken was coming home.
delivery n. 1 distribution, delivering, deliverance, conveyance, transportation, transport: The strikers have caused delivery of newspapers to stop. 2 liberation, release, deliverance, emancipation: His delivery from poverty was still a few years away. 3 childbirth, parturition; confinement: Many women find that their second child is an easier delivery. 4 presentation, performance; utterance, enunciation, articulation, pronunciation, expression, execution: He is an accomplished orator, with a spellbinding delivery.
demand v. 1 require, order, bid, call (for); insist, command: I demand that you retract that remark! She demanded to know where he was going. 2 claim, ask (for), require, insist on; exact: They had paid for tickets and demanded entrance. 3 require, call for, need, want, necessitate, cry out for: This superb dish demands an excellent claret. 4 ask (for), inquire or enquire, request; requisition: We demanded help from the police. --n. 5 request, bid, behest, requisition, order, insistence; outcry: Our demand for service went unheeded. 6 want, need, requirement, desire; market (demand), marketability; consumer or customer acceptance: The demand for our products is low at the moment. 7 in demand. wanted, needed, requested, coveted, popular, sought after, desired, desirable, Brit in request, US on request: Bright graduates are always in demand. 8 on demand. on call, on request, on presentation, when requested or required; at once, immediately, without delay: These notes are payable on demand.
democratic adj. egalitarian, classless; republican, representative, popular, self-governing, autonomous: The colonists voted for a democratic form of government.
demon n. 1 devil, evil spirit, fiend, cacodemon or cacodaemon; monster, ghoul, ogre, harpy, vampire: Medieval demons are generally depicted as having horns, hoofs, and tails. 2 fanatic, fiend, enthusiast, addict, Colloq freak: He's a real speed demon when he gets onto the motorway.
demonstrate v. 1 show, prove, make evident, establish, evince, evidence, exhibit, manifest: The increase in arrests demonstrates the efficiency of the police. 2 display, explain, expose, describe, present; illustrate: The salesman demonstrated the new camera for us. 3 picket, march, parade, rally, protest: More than 5000 people demonstrated against the fraudulent election.
demonstrative adj. 1 open, unrestrained, unconstrained, unreserved, expansive, effusive, emotional, warm, tender, affectionate, loving: Pat is quite demonstrative, often causing me to blush. 2 illustrative, indicative, representative, probative, evidential; provable, evident: Her point was proved by several demonstrative arguments. The hostility of these few is demonstrative of what to expect of the entire group.
denial n. 1 contradiction, negation, repudiation, refutation, disavowal, disclaimer, disaffirmation: Her denials notwithstanding, she was found guilty. 2 retraction, recantation, renunciation, withdrawal: The arbitrary denial of civil rights to some is unconscionable. 3 refusal, rejection, negation; veto: The boy's persistent denial of authority went into his record.
denomination n. 1 sect, persuasion, school, church, order: He is a member of the Mormon denomination. 2 sort, kind, type, nature, variety, unit, size, value; grade, class, genus, species, order, classification: The kidnappers demanded the ransom money in used notes of small denomination. 3 designation, appellation, name, identification, style, title, tag, term; designating, naming, identifying, styling, classifying, titling, entitling, tagging, terming, denominating: The denomination of people by race, creed, colour, or sex is discriminatory.
denounce v. 1 accuse, brand, stigmatize, charge, blame, incriminate, implicate, complain about: He has been denounced for the blackguard he is. 2 betray, inform against, report, reveal: He denounced his own son to the authorities. 3 criticize, condemn, decry, denunciate, attack, assail, censure, impugn, declaim or rail (against), vituperate, revile, vilify, inveigh against; ridicule, (hold up to) shame, pillory, (heap) scorn (upon), cast a slur on: The playwright was denounced as a neo-Nazi.
deny v. 1 contradict, gainsay, refute, controvert, disaffirm, disclaim, confute, negate, dispute: She denies ever having met the defendant. 2 reject, refuse, withhold, forbid, turn down, decline, disallow; recall, revoke, recant: He asserts that his right to counsel was denied. 3 disavow, repudiate, renounce, disown, forswear, disclaim: The witch-doctor demanded sacrifices, saying that the angry gods would not be denied.
department n. 1 division, subdivision, branch, office, bureau, section, segment, unit, part: Some departments are in another building. 2 responsibility, concern, worry, sphere, bailiwick, jurisdiction, domain, control, area or sphere of influence or activity: He was only responsible for the launch of the missiles - where they came down was not his department.
deplorable adj. 1 lamentable, regrettable, sad, woeful, grievous, wretched, miserable, unfortunate, awful, distressing, disturbing, troubling, upsetting, grave, serious, oppressive, difficult, desperate, hopeless, tragic, disastrous: Orphaned at six, he had a deplorable childhood. 2 shameful, disgraceful, scandalous, disreputable, awful, bad, appalling, dreadful, abominable, execrable, terrible, reprehensible: What did you think of Annie's deplorable behaviour at last week's dance? That's a deplorable painting.
depreciate v. 1 devalue, devaluate, decrease, diminish, lessen, reduce, lower, depress, cheapen, mark down: The abundant harvest has depreciated the price of commodities. 2 disparage, diminish, deride, decry, underrate, undervalue, underestimate, minimize, belittle, slight, derogate, deprecate, discredit, denigrate, run down, vilipend, Colloq play down, US talk down: When he depreciates another's work he adds nothing to the value of his own.
depress v. 1 deject, dispirit, oppress, sadden, grieve, cast down, dishearten, discourage, dampen, cast a gloom or pall over, burden, weigh down: He's very depressed right now because he failed to get a promotion. 2 weaken, dull, debilitate, enervate, sap; depreciate, cheapen, devalue, devaluate; diminish, lower, bring down, reduce: The news about a new oil field depressed the market today. 3 press (down), push (down) (on), lower: If the pressure gets too high, just depress this lever.
deprive v. withhold, deny, refuse; withdraw, remove, strip, dispossess, take away, expropriate, divest; mulct: They deprived him of the right to have visitors.
depth n. 1 deepness, extent, measure, profundity, profoundness: The depth of the cavern was at least three miles. 2 profundity, profoundness, abstruseness, obscurity, reconditeness, complexity, intricacy: There is great depth of meaning in many proverbs. 3 profundity, wisdom, sagacity, sageness, understanding, perception, astuteness, perspicacity, perspicaciousness, insight, intuition, acumen, penetration: One would scarcely characterize Mickey Mouse as possessed of great depth. 4 intensity, profundity, strength; vividness, brilliance, brilliancy, brightness, richness: It is hard for me to express the depth of my feeling for you. The depth of colour is much better in this picture. 5 depths. deep(s), abyss, abysm, chasm, bowels of the earth, (bottomless) pit, nethermost reaches or regions, nadir: As we descended into the depths the temperature increased. She is in the depths of despair and needs your moral support. 6 in depth. thoroughly, comprehensively, in detail, profoundly, deeply, extensively, intensively, concentratedly, probingly: The specialists have looked into the problem in depth and have no answer yet.
deranged adj. mad, insane, demented, lunatic, unhinged, unbalanced, berserk, crazy, crazed, psychotic, irrational, non compos mentis, out of one's mind or senses or head, not all there, of unsound mind, crack-brained, mad as a hatter or March hare, off the rails, Colloq touched, dotty, daft, cracked, bats, cuckoo, Brit potty, US have nobody home (upstairs), out to lunch, off-the-wall; Slang bonkers, dippy, barmy or balmy, batty, screwy, loony, nuts, nutty, wacky, bananas, off one's rocker, off one's trolley, mental, missing a few marbles, not having all one's marbles, kooky, with a screw loose, Chiefly Brit off one's chump, Chiefly US (plumb) loco, meshuga: Police said that the killer was completely deranged and should be approached with caution.
deride v. mock, ridicule, scoff (at), jeer (at), laugh (at), make fun or sport (of), tease, taunt, twit, poke fun (at), make a laughing-stock (of), sneer (at), scorn, flout, disdain, pooh-pooh, belittle, diminish, disparage, laugh off, Brit rally, Colloq knock, Brit take the mickey or micky out of: His classmates had always derided his attempts at getting anywhere with the girls.
derisory adj. mocking, ridiculing, scornful, derisive, disdainful, contemptuous, taunting, insulting, contumelious, jeering; sardonic, sarcastic, ironic(al), satirical: He felt crushed by their derisory laughter.
derivative adj. 1 derived, borrowed, procured, obtained, acquired; unoriginal, second-hand, copied, imitative, plagiarized, plagiaristic: He created nothing of his own - all his compositions were highly derivative. --n. 2 derivation, offshoot, development, spin-off, by-product: French, Italian, and other Romance languages are derivatives from Latin.
derogatory adj. depreciatory, depreciating, depreciative, disparaging, abasing, debasing, lowering, denigrating, belittling, diminishing, demeaning, detracting, deflating, minimizing, mitigating; uncomplimentary, offensive, insulting: The family took a somewhat derogatory attitude towards commerce. He said something derogatory about my wife, so I punched him.
descendant n. offspring, progeny, issue, heir, posterity, family; child, son, daughter, grandchild, scion; offshoot: They claim to be descendants of Tsar Nicholas.
description n. 1 portrayal, characterization, depiction, (thumbnail) sketch, portrait: Her description of her boss was far from flattering. 2 account, narrative, story, report, representation, statement, definition; explanation, commentary; chronicle, history, record, narration; memoir: I want your detailed description of what led up to the argument. 3 sort, kind, nature, character, type, variety, brand, breed, species, category, genus, ilk, genre, class; stripe, kidney, feather: Carstairs is a rou of the worst description.
desert n. 1 waste, wilderness, wasteland, dust bowl: The nearest oasis was fifty miles away across the desert. --adj. 2 barren, desolate, uninhabited, unpeopled, lonely, deserted; arid, bare, vacant, empty, wild, uncultivated: I was marooned on a desert island. --v. 3 forsake, leave, abandon; jilt, throw over; maroon, strand, leave to twist (slowly) in the wind; Colloq run or walk out on, leave flat or in the lurch, leave high and dry: His courage deserted him when he saw the child's eyes. He has deserted his wife for some floozie. 4 abscond, quit, run away (from), defect, abandon; Military slang go over the hill: He deserted and will be court-martialled.
deserted adj. abandoned, desolate, forsaken, neglected, uninhabited, unpeopled, vacant, vacated, unfrequented, unvisited, unoccupied, empty; stranded, rejected, God-forsaken, isolated, solitary, lonely, friendless: At that hour the streets are completely deserted.
deserve v. merit, earn, be entitled to, be worthy of, rate, warrant, justify: You ought to be nicer to him - he really doesn't deserve such unkind treatment.
deserving adj. meritorious, worthy, merited, commendable, laudable, praiseworthy, creditable, estimable: Perhaps you should leave your money to a deserving charity.
designate v. 1 indicate, specify, pinpoint, particularize, delineate, point out, identify, state, set forth, write or put down, name: You should designate your heirs in your will. 2 appoint, nominate, name, identify, denominate, select, pick, choose, elect, assign, appropriate, delegate, depute: She has not yet designated her successor. 3 mean, stand for, symbolize, denote, represent: The Greek letter pi designates the ratio of the circumference of a circle to its diameter. 4 call, name, style, term, label, christen, dub, nickname, entitle: Elvis was publicly designated 'The King of Rock 'n' Roll'.
designing adj. scheming, plotting, conniving, conspiring, intriguing, calculating, wily, tricky, cunning, sly, underhand(ed), crafty, artful, shrewd, Machiavellian, guileful, deceitful, double-dealing, devious, treacherous, Colloq crooked: The prince has fallen prey to designing courtiers.
desire v. 1 crave, want, fancy, covet, wish for, hope for, long or yearn for, pine or sigh for, hanker after, have an eye or taste for, hunger or thirst for or after, die for, have one's heart set on, give one's eye-teeth for, Colloq have a yen for, Slang US have the hots for: I desire nothing but your happiness. He desired her more than anything else in the world. 2 ask for, request, order, demand, solicit, importune, summon, require: Do you desire anything further, sir? --n. 3 longing, craving, yearning, hankering, hunger, thirst, appetite; passion, lust, libido, lustfulness, concupiscence, lecherousness, lechery, lasciviousness, salaciousness, prurience, Slang hot pants, US the hots; Colloq yen: He felt desire rising in him like a fever. 4 wish, request, urge, requirement, order, requisition, demand, desideratum; appeal, entreaty, petition: He fulfils her every desire.
desolate adj. 1 solitary, lonely, isolated, deserted, forlorn, forsaken, friendless, alone, abandoned, neglected; desert, uninhabited, empty, unfrequented, bare, barren, bleak, remote: He felt desolate after his wife's death. Tristan da Cunha is a group of four desolate islands in the Atlantic. 2 laid waste, ruined, devastated, ravaged, destroyed: The explosion left the surrounding countryside desolate. 3 dreary, dismal, wretched, joyless, cheerless, comfortless, miserable, unhappy, down, disconsolate, sad, melancholy, sorrowful, forlorn, mournful, woebegone, gloomy, broken-hearted, heavy-hearted, inconsolable, dejected, downcast, downhearted, dispirited, low-spirited, depressed, melancholy, spiritless, despondent, dismal, distressed, discouraged, hopeless: He has brought some happiness into her desolate existence. --v. 4 depopulate: The country was desolated by famine. 5 destroy, devastate, ruin, lay waste, despoil, ravage, demolish, obliterate, annihilate, raze, gut: Invaders desolated the countryside. 6 dismay, dishearten, depress, daunt, dispirit, sadden, deject, dispirit, discourage: He was either buoyed up by renewed hope or desolated by despair.
despair n. 1 hopelessness, desperation, discouragement, disheartenment, despondency, dejection, depression, gloom, gloominess, misery, melancholy, wretchedness, distress, miserableness, anguish; resignation: The despair of the prisoners was evident in their ravaged faces. --v. 2 give up or lose hope; surrender, quit: We despaired of ever seeing our children again.
desperation n. 1 recklessness, impetuosity, rashness, foolhardiness, imprudence, heedlessness: Penniless and half-starved, he was driven to desperation and stole a loaf of bread. 2 despair, anxiety, anguish, anxiousness, despondency, depression, dejection, discouragement, defeatism, pessimism, hopelessness, distress, misery, melancholy, wretchedness, gloom, sorrow: In a final act of desperation, he attempted suicide.
despise v. disdain, scorn, look down on or upon, be contemptuous of, sneer at, spurn, contemn; hate, loathe, detest, abhor: She despised her servants and treated them badly. He despised anyone who had not been to university.
despondent adj. dejected, sad, sorrowful, unhappy, melancholy, blue, depressed, down, downcast, downhearted, low, morose, miserable, disheartened, discouraged, dispirited, low-spirited, down in the mouth, Colloq down in the dumps: He's been despondent since she went away.
despotic adj. dictatorial, tyrannical, oppressive, authoritarian, imperious, domineering, totalitarian, absolute, autocratic, arbitrary: The country was under the despotic rule of a callous tyrant.
dessert n. sweet, Brit pudding, Colloq Brit pud, afters: For dessert, I had ice-cream and she had a fruit tart.
destine v. 1 fate, predetermine, predestine, ordain, foreordain, preordain; doom: His only ambition was to be a successful farmer, but the gods destined him for greater things. 2 design, intend, mean, devote, assign, appoint, designate, purpose, mark, earmark, set aside: He beheld the chariot destined to carry him heavenwards.
destiny n. fate, doom, fortune, lot, kismet, karma: It is my destiny to be ignored when living and forgotten when dead.
destroy v. 1 demolish, tear or pull down, raze, wipe out, ravage, wreck, smash, ruin, break up or down, annihilate, crush, eradicate, extirpate, exterminate, devastate, commit mayhem, lay waste, vandalize, Slang US trash: The invading hordes destroyed everything, leaving desolation in their wake. The storm destroyed fifty houses. 2 ruin, do away with, end, make an end of, bring to an end, bring or put an end to, terminate, finish, kill: Realizing what he had done, he destroyed himself. The trial destroyed his career. 3 counteract, neutralize, nullify, annul, cancel (out), reverse; stop, interfere with: Caught embezzling, Martin destroyed everything he had worked for. Sunspot activity destroyed radio transmission this week. 4 disprove, refute, confute, deny, contradict, negate, overturn, overthrow, ruin, spoil, undermine, weaken, enfeeble, devitalize, exhaust, disable, cripple: By pointing out just one flaw, she destroyed his entire argument.
destructive adj. 1 harmful, injurious, baneful, pernicious, dangerous, hurtful, toxic, poisonous, virulent, noxious, bad, malignant, baleful, unwholesome, damaging, detrimental, deleterious, devastating; deadly, fatal, lethal, fell, killing, internecine: The spray keeps away insects but is destructive of the plant life. 2 negative, adverse, opposing, opposed, contrary, contradictory, antithetical, conflicting, unfavourable, condemnatory, derogatory, disparaging, disapproving, critical: The playwrights feared and disliked him because of his destructive criticism.
detach v. separate, uncouple, part, disjoin, disengage, disunite, disconnect, disentangle, free, unfasten, undo, cut off, remove: She carefully detached the printer lead from the back of the computer.
detachment n. 1 separating, unfastening, disconnecting, detaching, disengaging; separation, disconnection, disengagement: Most young birds cannot survive a prolonged period of detachment from their parents. 2 aloofness, unconcern, indifference, coolness, inattention, insouciance: He viewed the carnage of the battle with regal detachment. 3 See detail, 3, below.
detailed adj. 1 itemized, exhaustive, comprehensive, thorough, full, complete, inclusive, particularized, precise, exact, minute, blow-by-blow, circumstantial: He kept a detailed report of everything that happened on D-Day. 2 intricate, complex, complicated, elaborate, ornate: Note the detailed scrollwork on this screen.
detective n. investigator, private investigator, CID man, policeman, constable, Colloq private eye, sleuth, Sherlock, snoop, snooper, Brit tec, US PI, dick, Hawkshaw; Slang cop, copper, US and Canadian gumshoe, peeper: Detectives have at last solved the case of the missing weapon.
deter v. dissuade, discourage, inhibit, intimidate, daunt, frighten off or from or away, scare off or from; prevent, stop, obstruct, check, hinder, impede: I was deterred from entering by three large dogs. Regular spraying of plants helps to deter aphid infestation.
deteriorate v. 1 worsen, decline, degenerate, degrade, spoil, worsen, get worse, depreciate, slip, slide, Colloq go to pot, go to the dogs, go downhill: We have watched their relationship deteriorate over the years. 2 decay, decline, disintegrate, fall apart, decompose, crumble, erode: The building slowly deteriorated and is now uninhabitable.
determine v. 1 settle, decide, clinch, arbitrate, judge, adjudge, conclude, terminate, end: The ambiguity must be determined one way or the other. 2 ascertain, find out, discover, conclude, infer, draw, learn, detect; verify: From the evidence, they determined the identity of the intruder. 3 decide, choose, select, resolve, make up one's mind, settle on or upon, fix on or upon: You alone can determine which candidate you want to vote for. 4 affect, influence, act on, shape, condition, govern, regulate, dictate: There were many factors determining my choice.
deterrent n. hindrance, impediment, discouragement, disincentive, dissuasion, check, hitch, obstacle, obstruction, stumbling-block; catch, snag, rub, fly in the ointment, bar, drawback: Some experts hold that the death penalty is no deterrent to murder. The only deterrent to your plan is that we are likely to be caught.
detour n. 1 diversion, deviation, circuitous route or way, roundabout way, bypass: The detour took us five miles out of our way. --v. 2 deviate, turn (away) from, divert, bypass: I detoured from the main road and took a short cut.
detriment n. disadvantage, drawback, liability; damage, harm, ill, impairment, injury, hurt, loss: He has a tendency to support lost causes, to his own detriment. Seeds survive without detriment where their plants would perish.
devastate v. 1 lay waste, ravage, destroy, waste, sack, raze, ruin, desolate, spoil, wreck, demolish, level, flatten, gut, obliterate: The island was completely devastated by the tidal wave that followed the typhoon. 2 disconcert, confound, discomfit, take aback, nonplus, shatter, overwhelm, abash, shock; humiliate, mortify, embarrass, chagrin, Colloq floor, US discombobulate: She was devastated by the news of Bertie's expulsion from college.
develop v. 1 bring out or forth, advance, expand (on or upon), broaden, enlarge (on or upon), amplify, evolve, expatiate (on or upon), elaborate (on or upon), reveal, lay open, expose, unfold, disclose, bare, (cause to) grow, realize the potential (of); cultivate, improve, promote, exploit, strengthen: The plot is fine, but the characters need to be developed more fully. It is the aim of the school to develop the students' natural abilities. 2 (make) grow, mature, ripen, age, expand; flower, blossom, bloom, increase: You can't develop that idea without financial backing. These shrubs will be fully developed next year. 3 exhibit, display, show, demonstrate, manifest: She has recently developed an interest in cooking. 4 emerge, arise, appear, come out, come to light, evolve, originate, begin, commence, happen, occur, come about; come forth, result: A serious fault has developed in the rocket's fuel line. His natural talent for music developed when he joined the school band.
deviant adj. 1 deviating, divergent, different, abnormal, strange, uncommon, unusual, odd, peculiar, curious, aberrant, eccentric, idiosyncratic, deviate, queer, quirky, weird, bizarre, offbeat, singular, Slang kinky, freaky, Chiefly Brit bent: They have been observing his deviant behaviour for some time. 2 See homosexual, 2, below. --n. 3 See homosexual, 1, below.
device n. 1 contrivance, mechanism, machine, machinery, implement, utensil, apparatus, instrument, appliance, tool, gadget, gimmick, Colloq contraption, widget, thingumajig or thingamajig, Brit gubbins: She has patented a device for peeling hard-boiled eggs. 2 stratagem, scheme, trick, artifice, ruse, plot, ploy, gambit, strategy, manoeuvre, machination; machinery, apparatus, mechanism, contrivance, gimmick, tool, weapon: They resorted to a variety of devices in order to achieve their ends. That lawyer used every device he could think of to separate Cornelia from her inheritance. 3 design, emblem, figure, (heraldic) bearing, insigne, cadency mark, mark of cadency, hallmark, trade mark, symbol, badge, coat of arms, seal, crest, colophon, logotype, logo, monogram, charge, cognizance, signet; motto, slogan, legend: The device - a closed eye - is that of Lord Boring. 4 devices. pleasure, disposition, will, inclination, fancy, desire, whim: Left to his own devices, he'll survive very well indeed.
devilish adj. diabolic(al), satanic, Mephistophelian, fiendish, demonic, cacodemonic, demoniac(al), infernal, hellish, villainous, sinister, wicked, evil, iniquitous, sinful, flagitious, heinous, malign, malevolent, malignant, cruel, maleficent; impish, mischievous, prankish, naughty, crazy, madcap: He has come up with a devilish plan for stealing the secret formula.
devious adj. 1 deceitful, underhand(ed), insincere, deceptive, misleading, subreptitious, sneaky, furtive, surreptitious, secretive, double-dealing, treacherous, dishonest, shifty, smooth, slick, slippery, scheming, plotting, designing, foxy, vulpine, wily, sly, crafty, tricky Colloq crooked: The plot to poison the queen was the product of a devious mind. 2 indirect, roundabout, zigzag, evasive, circuitous, crooked, rambling, serpentine, tortuous, sinuous, anfractuous: That is about the most devious bit of reasoning I have ever heard!
devote v. 1 apply, appropriate, assign, allot, commit, allocate, set aside or apart, put away or aside, dedicate, consecrate: Each of the chapels was devoted to a separate sect. 2 apply, pledge, dedicate, commit, give up: She has devoted her life to helping others.
devotion n. 1 devotedness, devoutness, reverence; earnestness, religiousness, piety, religiosity, pietism, godliness, holiness, spirituality, sanctity; worship, prayer, observance, ritual: The sect was noted for its devotion to martyrs and their relics. It is gratifying to see such devotion amongst the younger members of the congregation. They interrupted the holy man at his devotions. 2 dedication, consecration, attachment, loyalty, devotedness: His devotion to duty will be remembered by his fellow soldiers. 3 zeal, ardour, fervour, ardency, intensity, fanaticism, eagerness, enthusiasm, earnestness, readiness, willingness; love, passion, infatuation, fondness, affection, attachment, adherence, loyalty, allegiance: They would dedicate themselves with slavish devotion to some brutal master.
devout adj. 1 devoted, pious, religious, reverent, worshipful, faithful, dedicated, staunch, churchgoing; holy, godly, saintly, pure: When I last saw him, he had become a devout Christian. 2 devotional, reverential, religious, solemn: Through devout prayer one might see the kingdom of heaven. 3 earnest, sincere, genuine, hearty, heartfelt, devoted, ardent, zealous: You have my devout best wishes for your happiness.
dexterous adj. 1 dextrous, deft, lithe, nimble, supple, agile, quick, skilful: He was a dexterous archer. 2 clever, ingenious, astute, keen, sharp, shrewd, cunning, guileful, canny, artful, crafty, slick: She was devout in religion, decorous in conduct, and dexterous in business. He was the most dexterous of our political leaders.
diagnose v. identify, name, determine, recognize, distinguish, pinpoint, interpret; analyse: The doctor diagnosed the symptoms as those of rheumatoid arthritis.
dialogue n. 1 duologue, conversation, discussion, conference, talk, chat, colloquy, communication: I wrote down that dialogue - it was hilarious! 2 parley, conference, meeting, huddle, tte--tte, colloquy, Colloq US and Canadian rap session: A meaningful dialogue between labour and management could easily settle the question.
dicey n. risky, tricky, dangerous, difficult, ticklish, unpredictable, uncertain, unsure, doubtful, Colloq iffy, chancy or chancey, hairy: Asking for another pay rise could be pretty dicey, Daniel.
dicky adj. dickey, shaky, unreliable, unsteady, unsound, faulty, Colloq dodgy: The engine sounds a bit dicky to me - you'd better have it seen to.
dictator n. autocrat, absolute ruler or monarch, despot, overlord, oppressor, tsar or czar, tyrant, Fuehrer or Fhrer: Among monarchs, Henry VIII certainly could have been characterized as a dictator.
diction n. 1 language, wording, (verbal or writing) style, expression, usage, expressiveness, terminology, word choice, vocabulary, phraseology, phrasing, rhetoric: Please go over my paper and correct the diction. 2 articulation, pronunciation, enunciation, delivery, elocution, oratory, presentation, speech, intonation, inflection: That course in public speaking, improved Brian's diction enormously.
die v. 1 lose one's life, lay down one's life, perish, expire, decease, suffer death, Euphemistic depart, give up the ghost, be no more, (go to) meet one's Maker, breathe one's last, go to the happy hunting-grounds, go to one's reward, go to one's final or last resting-place, go west, pay the debt of nature, pay one's debt to nature, pass through the pearly gates, pass away or on, join the majority, go the way of all flesh; Slang pop off, bite the dust, kick the bucket, croak, Brit snuff it, go for a burton, pop one's clogs, US turn up one's toes, cash in one's chips or checks: He died of tuberculosis, a rare affliction these days. 2 Often, die down or out or away. dwindle, lessen, diminish, decrease, ebb, decline, wane, subside, wither (away), wilt, melt (away), dissolve, peter out, fail, weaken, deteriorate, disintegrate, degenerate, fade (away), droop, moulder, sink, vanish, disappear: We lost the race because the breeze died down. After the third try, her enthusiasm died. The sound of the flute died away among its echoes. 3 expire, end, stop, cease: Your secret will die with me. 4 Usually, die off or out. become extinct, perish: By about 200 million years ago, all the dinosaurs had died out. 5 long, pine, yearn, crave, hanker, want, desire, hunger, ache: He said he was dying to meet a real movie star.
diet n. council, congress, parliament, senate, legislature, house, chamber, assembly: In Japan, the legislature is called a diet . differ v. 1 diverge, deviate, be separate or distinct, be dissimilar or different, contrast; depart: Even the leaves of the same tree differ from one another. These substances differ in their magnetic properties. 2 disagree, conflict, contradict, be contradictory, vary, be at variance, take issue, part company, fall out, quarrel, argue: Opinions differ as to the best way to bring up children. She differed with me on many subjects.
different adj. 1 unlike, unalike, dissimilar, conflicting; contrary, discrete, contrastive, contrasting, disparate, divergent, diverse, distinct, opposite, separate, distinguishable; another or other: We both enjoy boating but in different ways. When modelling, she assumes a different pose every few seconds. 2 unique, unusual, peculiar, odd, singular, particular, distinctive, personal, extraordinary, special, remarkable, bizarre, rare, weird, strange, unconventional, original, out of the ordinary; new, novel, exceptional, unheard-of: And now, for something completely different, we present a juggling trick cyclist. 3 assorted, manifold, multifarious, numerous, abundant, sundry, various, varied, divers, many, several: Different kinds of breakfast cereal are now available.
difficult adj. 1 hard, arduous, toilsome, strenuous, tough, laborious, burdensome, onerous, demanding: He found it difficult to work the longer hours. The first birth is sometimes difficult. 2 puzzling, perplexing, baffling, enigmatic(al), profound, abstruse, obscure, recondite, complex; thorny, intricate, sensitive, knotty, problematic(al), ticklish, scabrous: Some of the questions in the exam were very difficult. The analyst raised a lot of difficult issues which I had to confront. 3 intractable, recalcitrant, obstructive, stubborn, unmanageable, obstinate, contrary, unaccommodating, refractory, unyielding, uncompromising; naughty, ill-behaved; Colloq Brit bloody-minded: Tessa has three difficult teenagers in the house these days. 4 troubled, troubling, tough, burdensome, onerous, demanding, trying, hard, grim, dark, unfavourable, straitening: We have been through some difficult times together. 5 fussy, particular, demanding, finicky, finical, fastidious, critical, troublesome, difficile, awkward, Colloq nit-picking: I'll go wherever you like; I don't want to be difficult about it. Sharon can be a very difficult person to be with.
diffuse adj. 1 spread (out or about or around), scattered, dispersed, widespread; sparse, meagre, thin (on the ground): A few diffuse clouds could be seen on the horizon. 2 wordy, verbose, prolix, long-winded, loquacious, discursive, digressive, rambling, circumlocutory, meandering, roundabout, circuitous, periphrastic, ambagious, diffusive, pleonastic: The style of the book is very diffuse, being extravagantly uneconomic of expression. --v. 3 spread, circulate, distribute, dispense, disperse; dispel, scatter, broadcast, sow, disseminate; dissipate: The colour rapidly diffused, turning the liquid crimson. She has successfully diffused her ideas of female equality throughout the community.
digest v. 1 assimilate: She has trouble digesting milk. 2 bear, stand, endure, survive, assimilate, accept, tolerate, brook, swallow, stomach: The attack was too much for even him to digest. 3 comprehend, assimilate, understand, take in, consider, grasp, study, ponder, meditate (on or over), reflect on, think over, weigh: I need a little time to digest the new regulations. 4 abbreviate, cut, condense, abridge, compress, epitomize, summarize, reduce, shorten: Her assistant had digested the report into four pages by noon. --n. 5 condensation, abridgment or abridgement, abstract, prcis, rsum, synopsis, summary, conspectus, abbreviation: I never did read the original novel, only a digest.
dignify v. distinguish, ennoble, elevate, raise, exalt, glorify, upraise, lift, uplift, enhance, improve, better, upgrade: The critic wrote that he wouldn't deign to dignify the book by calling it a novel.
dignity n. 1 nobility, majesty, gravity, gravitas, solemnity, courtliness, distinction, stateliness, formality, grandeur, eminence; hauteur, loftiness: She entered and walked with dignity to the throne. 2 worth, worthiness, nobility, nobleness, excellence, honour, honourableness, respectability, respectableness, standing, importance, greatness, glory, station, status, rank, level, position: The real dignity of a man lies not in what he has but in what he is. 3 self-respect, self-regard, amour propre, self-confidence, self-esteem, pride, self-importance: It was beneath her dignity to speak directly to a footman.
dilapidated adj. ruined, broken-down, in ruins, gone to rack and ruin, wrecked, destroyed, falling apart, decrepit, derelict, battered, tumbledown, run-down, ramshackle, crumbling, decayed, decaying, rickety, shaky, shabby, Brit raddled: We shall have to fix up that dilapidated barn if we expect to use it.
dilettante n. dabbler, trifler, aesthete, amateur: You know art like a curator; I am a mere dilettante.
dilute v. water (down), thin (down or out), cut, weaken, doctor, adulterate; mitigate, lessen, diminish, decrease: For the table, wine was often diluted with water. He dilutes his argument by citing irrelevancies.
diminish v. 1 decrease, decline, abate, lessen, reduce, lower, shrink, curtail, contract, lop, crop, dock, clip, prune, cut, truncate, cut down, abbreviate, shorten, abridge, compress, condense, pare (down), scale down, boil down: As the height increases, the pressure diminishes. The need for police patrols was diminished when we hired security guards. 2 belittle, disparage, degrade, downgrade, discredit, detract (from), vitiate, debase, deprecate, demean, derogate, depreciate, vilipend, devalue, cheapen, put down, dismiss, humiliate, demean, reject: His abuse by the authorities did not diminish him in her eyes. 3 wane, fade, dwindle, ebb, die out or away, peter out, recede, subside; slacken, let up, wind down, slow (down), ease (off), Colloq run out of steam: Soaking in the hot water, I felt the tensions of mind and body gradually diminishing. The campaign finally diminished to a negligible effort.
din n. 1 noise, clamour, uproar, shouting, screaming, yelling, babel, clangour, clatter, commotion, racket, row, hullabaloo, hubbub, hurly-burly, rumpus, hollering, blare, blaring, bray, braying, bellow, bellowing, roar, blast, roaring, pandemonium, tumult: We couldn't hear the speech above the din of the crowd. --v. 2 instil, drum, hammer: The names and dates of the British monarchs were dinned into me in childhood.
dingy adj. dark, dull, gloomy, dim, lacklustre, faded, discoloured, dusky, drab, dreary, dismal, cheerless, depressing, gloomy, shadowy, tenebrous, smoky, sooty, grey-brown, smudgy, grimy, dirty, soiled: He was a dingy man, in dingy clothes, who lived in a dingy house.
diplomacy n. 1 tact, tactfulness, adroitness, discretion: She was able to get rid of that rude boor with her customary diplomacy. 2 statecraft, statesmanship, negotiation; intrigue, Machiavellianism, machination, manoeuvring or maneuvering: Cardinal Richelieu is considered the founder of modern diplomacy.
direct v. 1 manage, handle, run, administer, govern, regulate, control, operate, superintend, supervise, command, head up, rule; Colloq call the shots: She directs the company with an iron hand. 2 guide, lead, conduct, pilot, steer, show or point (the way), be at the helm; advise, counsel, instruct, mastermind; usher, escort: He has directed the company for 40 years, through good times and bad. Can you direct me to the post office? 3 rule, command, order, require, bid, tell, instruct, charge, dictate, enjoin; appoint, ordain: He directed that the attack be launched at dawn. 4 aim, focus, level, point, train; turn: That bullet was directed at my heart. Direct your attention to the front of the room. 5 send, address, post, mail: Please direct the letter to my home. --adj. 6 straight, unswerving, shortest, undeviating, through: We turned off the direct road to take in the view. 7 uninterrupted, unreflected, unrefracted, without interference, unobstructed: She cannot remain in direct sunlight for very long. 8 unbroken, lineal: He claims to be a direct descendant of Oliver Cromwell's. 9 straightforward, unmitigated, outright, matter-of-fact, categorical, plain, clear, unambiguous, unmistakable, to the point, without or with no beating about the bush, unqualified, unequivocal, point-blank, explicit, express: I expect a direct answer to my direct question. Have you direct evidence of his guilt? That was a gross insult and a direct lie! 10 straightforward, frank, candid, outspoken, plain-spoken, honest, blunt, open, uninhibited, unreserved, forthright, honest, sincere, unequivocal; undiplomatic, tactless: She is very direct in commenting about people she dislikes.
directly adv. 1 straight, in a beeline, unswervingly, undeviatingly, as the crow flies: This road should take me directly to the beach. 2 immediately, at once, straight away, right away, quickly, promptly, without delay, speedily, instantly, Colloq US and Canadian momentarily: She called and I went directly. 3 soon, later (on), anon, presently, in a (little) while, shortly: The doctor will be here directly. 4 exactly, precisely, just; completely, entirely: My garage is directly opposite. The cricket pitch is directly at the centre of the park. --conj. 5 as soon as, when: The police arrested him directly he entered the building.
dirt n. 1 soil, mud, muck, mire, grime, slime, sludge, ooze, slop; dust, soot; excrement, ordure; filth, waste, refuse, trash, garbage, rubbish, offal, junk, dross, sweepings; leavings, scrap, orts; Slang Brit gunge, US grunge: This vacuum cleaner is guaranteed to pick up any kind of dirt. 2 soil, earth, loam, ground, clay: Hydroponics is the technique of farming without dirt, using only liquid nutrients. 3 indecency, obscenity, smut, pornography, foulness, corruption, filth, vileness: Customs confiscated much of the dirt before it could enter the country. 4 gossip, scandal, talk, rumour, inside information , Colloq low-down, dope, Slang US scuttlebutt: I got the dirt from David about what really happened at the party.
disability n. 1 handicap, impairment, defect, infirmity, disablement: James is unable to play tennis owing to his disability. 2 inability, incapacity, unfitness, impotence, powerlessness, helplessness: The teacher helped her to overcome her disability.
disadvantage n. 1 deprivation, set-back, drawback, liability, handicap, defect, flaw, shortcoming, weakness, weak spot, fault: Being colour-blind has not been a disadvantage in his kind of work. 2 detriment, harm, loss, injury, damage; prejudice, disservice: Failure to send in a tax return will be to your distinct disadvantage.
disagreeable adj. 1 unpleasant, unpleasing, offensive, distasteful, repugnant, obnoxious, repellent, repulsive, objectionable, revolting, odious: He found the heat and humidity in the tropics most disagreeable. 2 offensive, noxious, unsavoury, unpalatable, nauseating, nauseous, nasty, sickening, disgusting, revolting, repellent, abominable, objectionable: A disagreeable odour arose from the beggar on the doorstep. 3 bad-tempered, ill-tempered, disobliging, uncooperative, unfriendly, uncivil, abrupt, blunt, curt, brusque, short, uncourtly, impolite, bad-mannered, ill-mannered, discourteous, rude, ill-tempered, bad-tempered, testy, grouchy, splenetic, cross, ill-humoured, peevish, morose, sulky, sullen: Brian became quite disagreeable, and I did not see him again.
disappear v. 1 vanish, evaporate, vaporize, fade (away or out), evanesce, Poetic evanish: After granting my wish, the genie disappeared, laughing diabolically. 2 die (out or off), become extinct, cease (to exist), perish (without a trace): The dinosaurs, though enormously successful as a species, suddenly disappeared from the earth.
disappointed adj. 1 frustrated, unsatisfied, dissatisfied, disillusioned, disenchanted, discouraged, downhearted, disheartened, downcast, saddened, unhappy, dejected, discontented, let down: There will be a lot of disappointed children at Christmas this year. 2 foiled, thwarted, balked, defeated, undone, failed, let down: Though she campaigned energetically, Theodora was among the disappointed candidates.
disappointment n. 1 frustration, non-fulfilment,unfulfilment, unsatisfaction, dissatisfaction, set-back, failure, let-down, defeat, blow, fiasco, calamity, disaster, fizzle, Brit damp squib, Colloq wash-out: Recently he has had one disappointment after another. 2 dejection, depression, discouragement, disenchantment, distress, regret, mortification, chagrin: I cannot tell you the disappointment your father and I felt when you failed to get into university.
disapprove v. condemn, criticize, censure, object to, decry, denounce, put or run down, deplore, deprecate, belittle, look down on, frown on or upon, Colloq knock, look down one's nose at, tut-tut: I don't care if you disapprove of my marrying Eustace. The monopolies commission has disapproved the merger.
disaster n. catastrophe, calamity, cataclysm, tragedy, misfortune, dbcle, accident, mishap, blow, act of God, adversity, trouble, reverse: The flooding of the river was as much of a disaster as the earlier drought.
disband v. disperse, disorganize, scatter, break up, dissolve, demobilize, deactivate, retire: After the war, the special spy force was disbanded.
discernible adj. 1 perceptible, visible, seeable, perceivable, apparent, clear, observable, plain, detectable; conspicuous, noticeable: A small sailing-boat was discernible on the horizon. 2 distinguishable, recognizable, identifiable, distinct: To me there is a discernible difference between puce and burgundy.
disciple n. 1 apprentice, pupil, student, proselyte, learner, scholar: Pietro Zampollini was a disciple of the great artist Ravelli. 2 follower, adherent, devotee, admirer, votary; partisan, fan, aficionado: She is a disciple of Louis Armstrong's.
discipline n. 1 training, drilling, regimen, exercise, practice, drill, inculcation, indoctrination, instruction, schooling: Strict discipline is good for young people, according to my father. 2 punishment, penalty, chastisement, castigation, correction: The discipline meted out to senior students was very harsh. 3 order, routine, (proper) behaviour, decorum: The sergeant is there to maintain discipline among the recruits. 4 direction, rule, regulation, government, control, subjection, restriction, check, curb, restraint: There was far too much discipline during my childhood, both at school and at home. 5 subject, course, branch of knowledge, area, field, speciality or chiefly US and Canadian specialty: Latin is a discipline which is fast disappearing from our schools. --v. 6 train, break in, condition, drill, exercise, instruct, coach, teach, school, indoctrinate, inculcate; edify, enlighten, inform: The aim of his education is to discipline him to respond to orders. 7 check, curb, restrain, bridle, control, govern, direct, run, supervise, manage, regulate, hold or keep in check, US ride herd on: You have to discipline those children or they will always misbehave. 8 punish, chastise, castigate, correct, penalize, reprove, criticize, reprimand, rebuke: Discipline that boy or he will just do it again.
discomfit v. 1 embarrass, abash, disconcert, disturb, confuse, make uneasy or uncomfortable, discompose, fluster, ruffle, confound, perturb, upset, worry, unsettle, unnerve, Colloq rattle, US faze, discombobulate: Being short, she was discomfited by references to her height. 2 frustrate, foil, thwart, baffle, check, defeat, trump, outdo, outwit, overcome: Discomfited by her violent reaction, her attacker fled.
disconcerted adj. discomposed, discomfited, ruffled, uneasy, put out or off, uncomfortable, queasy, flustered, agitated, upset, shaken, unsettled, perturbed, confused, bewildered, perplexed, baffled, puzzled, US thrown off, Colloq rattled, US fazed, discombobulated; Slang (all) shook (up): They were really disconcerted by the arrival of the police.
disconnect v. separate, disjoin, disunite, uncouple, detach, unhook, undo, disengage, unhitch; cut or break off; cut or pull apart, part, divide, sever: They disconnected the engine after pushing the carriages onto a siding. Disconnect the power before changing the light-bulb.
discontent n. displeasure, unhappiness, dissatisfaction, discontentment, distaste, uneasiness; malaise: He felt discontent at being barred from the club.
discontinue v. cease, break off, give up, stop, terminate, put an end to, quit, leave off, drop; interrupt, suspend: Please discontinue newspaper delivery until further notice.
discordant adj. 1 contrary, disagreeing, divergent, opposite, opposed, adverse, contradictory, incompatible, differing, different, conflicting, at odds, incongruous, in conflict, in disagreement, at variance, dissimilar: The testimony of the fossils is discordant with the evidence in the legend. 2 inharmonious, dissonant, jarring, cacophonous, unmelodious, unmusical, harsh, strident, jangling, grating: He struck some discordant notes on his zither.
discourage v. 1 dispirit, dishearten, daunt, unman, dismay, cow, intimidate, awe, overawe, unnerve: We were discouraged by the arrival of more enemy troops. 2 deter, put off, dissuade, advise or hint against, talk out of, divert from; oppose, disapprove (of), Colloq throw cold water on: They discouraged me from applying again. 3 prevent, inhibit, hinder, stop, slow, suppress, obviate: This paint is supposed to discourage corrosion.
discover v. 1 find (out), learn, perceive, unearth, uncover, bring to light, turn or dig up, smoke or search out, root or ferret out; determine, ascertain, track down, identify; locate: He discovered the ninth moon of Saturn. We discovered why the tyre had gone flat. 2 see, spot, catch sight or a glimpse of, lay eyes on, behold, view, encounter, meet (with); notice, espy, descry, detect, discern: He discovered Madagascar lying right on their course. 3 originate, conceive (of), devise, contrive, invent, make up, design, pioneer; come or chance or stumble upon: She discovered a method for tin-plating gold.
discredit v. 1 detract, disparage, defame, dishonour, disgrace, degrade, bring into disfavour or disrepute, deprecate, demean, lower, devalue, depreciate, devaluate, belittle, diminish, reduce; slur, slander, vilify, calumniate, sully, smear, blacken, taint, tarnish, besmirch, smirch, stigmatize, asperse, malign, libel: Both of them were thoroughly discredited by the scandal. 2 disbelieve, deny, dispute, doubt, question, raise doubts about, distrust, mistrust, give no credit or credence to: As he's a known liar, you can discredit whatever he tells you. 3 disprove, reject, refute, invalidate; mock, ridicule: The phlogiston theory is generally discredited by most modern chemists. --n. 4 dishonour, degradation, disfavour, disrepute, ill repute, disgrace, ignominy, infamy, odium, stigma, shame, smear, slur, scandal, obloquy, opprobrium, humiliation: Her performance has brought discredit to all female saxophonists. 5 damage, harm, reflection, slur, aspersion, slander, defamation, blot, brand, tarnish, blemish, taint: The discredit to her reputation is irreparable. 6 doubt, scepticism, dubiousness, doubtfulness, qualm, scruple, question, incredulity, suspicion, distrust, mistrust: The new evidence throws discredit on the validity of the previous testimony.
discrepancy n. gap, disparity, lacuna, difference, dissimilarity, deviation, divergence, disagreement, incongruity, incompatibility, inconsistency, variance; conflict, discordance, contrariety: There is a great discrepancy between what he says and what he means.
discretion n. 1 tact, diplomacy, prudence, care, discernment, sound judgement, circumspection, sagacity, common sense, good sense, wisdom, discrimination: You can rely on my discretion not to reveal the club's secrets. 2 choice, option, judgement, preference, pleasure, disposition, volition; wish, will, liking, inclination: Buyers may subscribe to insurance cover at their own discretion.
discriminating adj. discerning, perceptive, critical, keen, fastidious, selective, particular, selective, fussy, refined, cultivated: From the wine you chose, I see you are a lady of discriminating tastes.
discursive adj. wandering, meandering, digressing, digressive, rambling, circuitous, roundabout, diffuse, long-winded, verbose, wordy, prolix, windy: Frobisher was again boring everyone with his discursive description of life in an igloo.
discussion n. conversation, talk, chat, dialogue, colloquy, exchange, deliberation, examination, scrutiny, analysis, review; confabulation, conference, powwow; debate, argument; Colloq chiefly Brit chin-wag, US and Canadian bull session: The subject of your dismissal came up for discussion yesterday.
disease n. 1 sickness, affliction, ailment, malady, illness, infection, complaint, disorder, condition, infirmity, disability, Archaic murrain, Colloq bug: The colonel contracted the disease while in Malaysia. 2 blight, cancer, virus, plague; contagion: Panic spread through the Exchange like an infectious disease.
disembark v. land, alight, go or put ashore, get or step off or out, leave; debark, detrain, deplane: Tomorrow we disembark at Tunis.
disenchanted adj. disillusioned, disabused, undeceived, disappointed; blas, indifferent, jaundiced, sour(ed), cynical: I'm afraid she's now thoroughly disenchanted with her job.
disfavour n. 1 disapproval, dislike, displeasure, disapprobation, unhappiness: Katerina regards your decision with disfavour. 2 disesteem, discredit, dishonour, disgrace, disrepute: After last night's events, we are really in disfavour with the management. --v. 3 disapprove (of), dislike, discountenance, frown on or upon: We strongly disfavour the merger.
disgrace n. 1 ignominy, shame, humiliation, embarrassment, degradation, debasement, dishonour, discredit, disfavour, disrepute, vitiation, infamy; disesteem, contempt, odium, obloquy, opprobrium: His conduct has brought disgrace on his family. 2 blemish, harm, aspersion, blot, scandal, slur, stigma, vilification, smirch, smear, stain, taint, black mark: The way she has been treated by the company is a disgrace. --v. 3 shame, humiliate, embarrass, mortify: He has been disgraced by his son's cowardice. 4 degrade, debase, dishonour, discredit, disfavour, vitiate, defame, disparage, scandalize, slur, stain, taint, stigmatize, sully, besmirch, smirch, tarnish, smear, asperse, vilify, blacken, drag through the mud, reflect (adversely) on: Once again his actions have disgraced the family name.
disgruntled adj. displeased, dissatisfied, irritated, peeved, vexed, cross, exasperated, annoyed, unhappy, disappointed, discontented, put out; malcontent, discontent, testy, cranky, peevish, grouchy, grumpy, moody, sullen, sulky, ill-humoured, bad-tempered, ill-tempered, Colloq fed up, Slang browned off, Brit cheesed off: He was disgruntled at the thought of having to go shopping in the pouring rain.
disgust v. 1 sicken, offend, nauseate, repel, revolt, put off, outrage, appal, Slang gross out: His patronizing attitude disgusts those who work for him. --n. 2 revulsion, nausea, sickness, repugnance, fulsomeness, outrage, distaste, aversion: One look at the food filled me with disgust. 3 loathing, contempt, hatred, abhorrence, odium, animus, animosity, enmity, antagonism, antipathy, dislike: Some feel disgust at the thought of eating insects.
disgusting adj. nauseating, sickening, offensive, outrageous, sick-making, fulsome, repulsive, revolting, repugnant, off-putting, repellent, obnoxious, loathsome, gross, vile, foul, nasty; unappetizing, unsavoury, objectionable, distasteful: Spitting in public is now considered a disgusting way to behave.
dishonour v. 1 insult, abuse, affront, outrage, slight, offend, injure: His slaughter of the prisoners has dishonoured our flag. 2 disgrace, degrade, shame, debase, humiliate, mortify, abase, vitiate, humble: We were all dishonoured by our colleague's defection. 3 defile, violate, ravish, rape, seduce, deflower, debauch: The general learned that his wife had been dishonoured by one of his adjutants. --n. 4 disesteem, disrespect, irreverence, slight, indignity, ignominy, disgrace, shame, disrepute, discredit, insult, offence, affront, loss of face, depreciation, belittlement, disparagement, detraction, derogation, obloquy: You cannot retreat without dishonour. 5 aspersion, defamation, libel, slander, blot, slur, smear, smirch, black mark, blemish, denigration: His actions have brought us dishonour.
disillusion v. disabuse, disappoint, disenchant, disenchant, break the spell, enlighten, set straight, disentrance, disenthral, undeceive: When I saw her without make-up, I was thoroughly disillusioned.
disinfect v. clean, cleanse, purify, purge, sanitize, fumigate, decontaminate, sterilize: The bedding will have to be disinfected before it can be used.
disingenuous adj. clever, artful, crafty, sly, on the qui vive, cunning, insidious, foxy, wily, slick, smooth; insincere, false, dishonest, tricky, devious, deceitful, underhand(ed), guileful, shifty; double-dealing, two-faced, duplicitous, hypocritical, scheming, plotting, calculating, designing, contriving: It is disingenuous to ask for advice when what you want is assistance.
disinterested n. unbiased, impartial, unprejudiced, altruistic, objective, fair, neutral, open-minded, equitable, just, dispassionate, detached, even-handed, impersonal, uninvolved: The judge is supposed to be a disinterested party.
dislike v. 1 be averse to, mind, turn from, disfavour, disesteem, be put or turned off by; hate, loathe, scorn, despise, contemn, detest, abominate, execrate: I no longer dislike spinach. --n. 2 aversion, displeasure, distaste, disfavour, disesteem, disrelish, disaffection, disinclination; loathing, hatred, animus, animosity, antipathy, detestation, contempt, execration, ill will; disgust, repugnance; hostility, antagonism: I took an instant dislike to the fellow. She feels an intense dislike for her father.
dismal adj. depressing, gloomy, cheerless, melancholy, sombre, dreary, sad, bleak, funereal, lugubrious, forlorn, morose, solemn, dark, grim, wretched, woebegone, woeful, black, blue, joyless, doleful, dolorous, unhappy, miserable, lowering; pessimistic: She was alone, alone on the dismal moor. The prospects for the company looked very dismal.
dismiss v. 1 discharge, oust, release, give notice (to), let go, lay off, throw out, toss out, remove, Chiefly military cashier, Old-fashioned military drum out, Brit politics deselect, Colloq fire, send packing, kick out, Brit sack, give (someone) the sack, boot (out), turn off, US give (someone) his or her walking papers, give (someone) a pink slip, can; Slang give (someone) the (old) heave-ho: Gabney has been dismissed without notice. 2 reject, set aside, repudiate, spurn, discount, disregard, lay aside, put out of one's mind, think no more of, write off, banish, have or be done with, scorn, discard, ignore, shrug off; belittle, diminish, pooh-pooh: She dismissed the story as just so much gossip. 3 disperse, release, disband, send away: After returning from the mission, the commando unit was dismissed.
disobedient adj. 1 insubordinate, unruly, naughty, mischievous, bad, ill-behaved, badly behaved, obstreperous, unmanageable, refractory, fractious, ungovernable, uncomplying, unsubmissive, wayward, non-compliant, incompliant, intractable, defiant; delinquent, derelict, disregardful, remiss, undutiful: Disobedient children will be kept in after school. 2 contrary, perverse, wilful, headstrong, stubborn, recalcitrant, obdurate, obstinate, contumacious, wayward, cross-grained, opposed, mutinous, rebellious, revolting, anarchic, Colloq pigheaded: We cannot tolerate disobedient recruits.
disorder n. 1 disarray, confusion, chaos, disorderliness, disorganization, untidiness, mess, muddle, jumble, hash, mishmash, tangle, hotchpotch or US and Canadian also hodgepodge, derangement, shambles, clutter: After the party, the place was in terrible disorder. 2 tumult, riot, disturbance, pandemonium, upheaval, ferment, fuss, unrest, uproar, hubbub, hullabaloo, commotion, clamour, turbulence, turmoil, turbulence, violence, bedlam, free-for-all, rumpus, brouhaha, fracas, affray, fray, brawl, Donnybrook, scuffle, fight, mle or melee, battle royal, battle, civil disorder, breach of the peace, Colloq Brit kerfuffle or carfuffle or kurfuffle, Slang Brit bovver: The army had to be called out to quell the disorder. 3 ailment, illness, sickness, affliction, malady, affection, complaint, disease: The doctors diagnosed it as a liver disorder. --v. 4 upset, disarrange, muddle, confuse, confound, unsettle, disorganize, discompose, shake up, disturb, mix (up), befuddle, jumble, scramble, tangle, snarl: You obscure the sense when you disorder the words.
disorientated n. confused, bewildered, lost, adrift, (all) at sea, mixed up, uncertain, unsure, insecure, disoriented, Colloq out of it, in a fog, Brit off (the) beam, US off the beam: I left by another door and was completely disorientated for a moment.
disparity n. difference, discrepancy, gap, inequality, unevenness, imbalance, dissimilarity, contrast, imparity, inconsistency, incongruity: Our interests differ owing to the disparity in our ages.
dispatch v. 1 send off or away or out, send on one's way: We dispatched a messenger with the parcel. 2 send, mail, post, transmit, forward, ship, express, remit, convey , Chiefly US and Canadian freight: Please dispatch this letter as quickly as possible. 3 kill, murder, slay, dispose of, put to death, execute, do away with, do in, assassinate,- liquidate, finish (off), put an end to, put away (for good), Slang polish off, bump off, eliminate, gun down, silence, get, erase, rub out, knock off, bury, US ice, hit, take for a ride, waste, zap: The gang soon dispatched all their rivals. 4 hasten, hurry, speed up, accelerate, get done, accomplish, get through, conclude, finish off, complete, execute, do: The task was dispatched in just two days. --n. 5 haste, speed, promptness, quickness, expedition, expeditiousness, celerity, alacrity, swiftness, hurry, rapidity: She concluded the interview with dispatch and sent me away. 6 communiqu, report, bulletin, story, news (item), communication, message, piece: document, instruction, missive: Here is a dispatch from our correspondent on Pitcairn Island. 7 execution, killing, murder, disposal, assassination, dispatching, slaying: The dispatch of the consul left us without a representative.
dispense v. 1 distribute, give out, hand or pass out, furnish, supply, provide, give away, deal (out), dole out, parcel out, disburse, mete out, share (out), issue, apportion, allocate, allot, assign, Colloq dish out: The Red Cross dispensed medicines to the stricken villagers. 2 administer, conduct, direct, operate, superintend, supervise, carry out, execute, discharge, apply, implement, enforce: It is the governor who dispenses justice in these islands. 3 dispense with. a do without, forgo, give up, eschew, relinquish, refuse, waive, forswear, abstain (from), renounce, reject: Can we dispense with the jokes and get to work? b do away with, get rid of, eliminate, do without, dispose of, abolish, manage or do without, remove, cancel, ignore, render unnecessary or superfluous: Building on solid rock will dispense with the need for a foundation.
displace v. 1 move, transfer, shift, relocate, dislocate, misplace, disturb, disarrange, disorder, unsettle: The entire population of the village was displaced when the dam was built. 2 expel, unseat, eject, evict, exile, banish, depose, remove, oust, dismiss, discharge, cashier, Colloq fire, kick or throw out, Brit sack: The voters displaced the corrupt council. 3 take the place of, supplant, replace, supersede, succeed: Watching television has displaced reading in many modern homes.
displease v. offend, put out, dissatisfy, upset, provoke, exasperate, worry, trouble, vex, annoy, irritate, pique, irk, nettle, peeve, chafe, rile, ruffle, anger, infuriate, frustrate, get (someone's) goat, Colloq miff; Slang US bug: Having to listen to rock 'n' roll on your damned hi-fi is what displeases me most.
disposable adj. 1 discardable, throw-away, non-returnable, paper, plastic, biodegradable: The new product is packaged in a disposable container. 2 available, liquid, spendable, usable, expendable, obtainable: Her disposable assets include valuable government bonds.
disposition n. 1 character, temper, attitude, temperament, nature, personality, bent, frame of mind, humour, make-up, spirit: Alan's son David has a cheerful disposition. 2 arrangement, organization, placement, disposal, ordering, grouping, set, placing: I don't care much for the disposition of the furniture. 3 transfer, transference, dispensation, disposal, assignment, settlement, determination, bestowal, parcelling out, distribution: The disposition of father's assets is not your affair. 4 determination, choice, disposal, power, command, control, management, discretion, decision, regulation: Distribution of favours is at the disposition of the crown.
disproportion n. inequality, unevenness, disparity, imbalance, asymmetry, irregularity, lopsidedness, dissimilarity, inconsistency, incongruity: Now that we're older, there isn't such a disproportion in our ages.
disprove v. refute, confute, invalidate, contradict, negate, rebut, discredit, controvert, puncture, demolish, destroy, Colloq shoot or poke full of holes: Modern science has disproved the phlogiston theory.
dispute v. 1 argue with or against, question, debate, challenge, impugn, gainsay, deny, oppose, fight (against), object to, take exception to, disagree with, contest, confute, quarrel with, doubt, raise doubts about, dissent (from): The council dispute his right to build a hotel on that land. 2 argue (about), debate, discuss, quarrel about, wrangle over, differ (on or about): A bill of rights has occasionally been disputed in Parliament. --n. 3 argument, debate, disagreement, difference (of opinion), controversy, polemic, conflict, quarrel, wrangle, velitation; discussion; Colloq Brit argy-bargy or argie-bargie or argle-bargle: There is a dispute about the runner's eligibility for the race. 4 conflict, disturbance, fight, altercation, row, disagreement, brawl, Donnybrook, feud, rumpus, fracas; strife, discord; tiff, velitation, US spat: Four people have been injured in the dispute.
disregard v. 1 ignore, overlook, pay little or no heed or attention to, take little or no notice or account of, dismiss from one's mind or thoughts, turn a blind eye or deaf ear to, brush aside, pass up, wink or blink at, make light of, let go by, gloss over, Rare pretermit: I shall disregard those insulting remarks. 2 snub, slight, turn up one's nose at, disparage, despise, contemn, disdain, scorn, (give the) cold shoulder (to), cut; underrate, underestimate, take little or no account of, undervalue, minimize, dismiss, sneeze at, Slang brush off, give the go-by: Visitors often disregard the cultural attractions of Las Vegas. --n. 3 disrespect, contempt, indifference, inattention, non-observance, neglect, heedlessness, Rare pretermission; disdain, low regard, disesteem: Some drive with a profound disregard for the law.
disreputable adj. 1 low, base, abject, contemptuous, unrespectable, disrespectable, untrustworthy, discreditable, dishonourable, disgraceful, reprehensible, shameful, despicable, ignominious, bad, wicked, heinous, vicious, iniquitous, vile, opprobrious, scandalous, louche, questionable, dubious, Colloq shady: She keeps disreputable company. 2 dishevelled, unkempt, slovenly, untidy, shabby, disordered, messy, dirty, bedraggled, scruffy, seedy, threadbare, tattered, Brit down at heel, raddled, US down at the heel(s), Colloq sloppy, Slang Brit grotty: That disreputable beggar is your brother?
disrespectful adj. impolite, rude, discourteous, uncivil, unmannerly, ill-mannered, bad-mannered, irreverent, impudent, insolent, indecorous, pert, saucy, forward, Colloq fresh, cheeky: Sara is sometimes disrespectful to her elders.
disrupt v. 1 disorder, upset, disorganize, disturb, unsettle, shake up, disconcert, agitate: You've disrupted my plan completely. 2 interrupt, break in or into, interfere (with): They disrupted the meeting with their loud outbursts.
dissatisfied adj. discontented, displeased, disappointed, unsatisfied, discontent, disgruntled, unhappy, unfulfilled, ungratified, frustrated: We return the full purchase price to any dissatisfied customer.
disservice n. harm, damage, injury, wrong, unkindness, bad turn, disfavour, injustice: It was a disservice to tell my boss about my expense account.
dissimilar adj. different, unlike, unalike, distinct, separate, contrasting, diverse, unrelated, heterogeneous: The styles are entirely dissimilar.
dissimulate v. pretend, dissemble, feign, disguise, camouflage, cover up, conceal, deceive, misrepresent, fake, counterfeit: She's dissimulating her real attitude towards the wealthy.
dissipate v. 1 scatter, spread (out), disperse, be dispelled, diffuse; disseminate, sow, distribute; break up: The crowd had dissipated by noon. 2 spread thin, evaporate, vanish, disappear, vaporize, peter out, diminish: By the time we were ready to go, the clouds had dissipated. 3 squander, waste, fritter away, throw away, burn up, use up, exhaust, run through: By the time he was twenty, he had dissipated a huge fortune. 4 revel, carouse, party, sow one's wild oats, burn the candle at both ends, roister, make merry, debauch, go on a spree: Before their marriage, he was seen dissipating in the fleshpots of Europe.
dissociate v. separate, cut off, sever, disassociate, disjoin, disconnect, abstract, disengage, detach, isolate, distance, break off (from), break up (with), divorce, set apart, segregate: I have carefully dissociated myself from any political party.
dissolution n. 1 disintegration, separation, breakup, breakdown, separation, breaking up, breaking down, collapse, undoing: Much ill will attended the dissolution of our marriage. 2 destruction, decomposition, decay, ruin, overthrow, dissolving, disbandment, dismissal, dispersal, disorganization, discontinuation; adjournment, ending, end, termination, conclusion, finish: A vote of no confidence led to the dissolution of Parliament.
distance n. 1 remoteness, space, gap, interval, mileage, footage, stretch: What is the distance from here to your house? 2 aloofness, detachment, reserve, coolness, haughtiness, hauteur, stiffness, rigidity: He maintains a distance between himself and the servants. --v. 3 separate, detach, dissociate, disassociate: She distanced herself from her students.
distaste n. 1 dislike, disfavour, antipathy, disrelish, disinclination; dissatisfaction, displeasure, discontentment: You know of my distaste for cocktail parties. 2 aversion, revulsion, disgust, nausea, abhorrence, loathing, repugnance, horror: She has a distinct distaste for avocado pears.
distinct adj. 1 clear, perceptible, plain, understandable, vivid, definite, well-defined, precise, exact, unmistakable or unmistakeable, noticeable, recognizable, obvious, patent, marked, manifest, evident, apparent, explicit, unambiguous, clear-cut, palpable, unequivocal, lucid, sharp, pellucid, limpid, transparent: There is a distinct outline of a figure on the Turin shroud. 2 separate, detached, discrete, different, dissimilar, distinguishable, distinguished; individual, sui generis, unique, special, singular; peculiar, unusual, uncommon, contrasting: The government of Puerto Rico is distinct from that of the US. He has been charged with three distinct offences.
distinctive adj. distinguishing, characteristic, unique, singular, distinct, individual, typical, idiosyncratic, peculiar: She has developed a distinctive style of her own.
distinguished adj. 1 celebrated, famous, illustrious, noted, renowned, notable, noteworthy, pre-eminent, eminent, prominent, honoured, respected, honourable: Churchill was one of the most distinguished men of his day. 2 dignified, noble, grand, stately, distingu, royal, regal, aristocratic: What is he doing in this distinguished gathering?
distract v. 1 divert, deflect, sidetrack, turn aside, draw away: Sorry, I was distracted for a moment - where were we? 2 divert, amuse, entertain, gratify, delight, occupy, interest, absorb, engross: We found the belly-dancers quite distracting. 3 bewilder, confuse, confound, perplex, puzzle, discompose, befuddle, mystify, disconcert, fluster, rattle, bemuse, daze, disturb, agitate, trouble, bother: I am distracted with doubts about whether to phone the police.
distraught adj. distracted, agitated, troubled, disturbed, upset, perturbed, wrought or worked up, excited, frantic, at (one's) wits' end, overwrought, frenetic, nervous, frenzied, feverish, wild, hysterical, delirious, irrational, crazy, mad, insane, berserk, run(ning) amok: He is distraught with grief.
distribute v. 1 deal or dole out, parcel out, give (out), mete out, dispense, apportion, allot, share (out), partition, divide up, assign, issue, circulate, pass out, pass round or around, hand out, deliver, convey, Colloq dish or spoon out: Emergency rations were distributed to the flood victims. 2 disperse, scatter, strew, spread (round or around or about), diffuse, disseminate: Mammals are uniformly distributed over the globe. 3 sort, classify, class, categorize, assort, arrange, group, file, order: Distribute the packages according to their size.
district n. territory, region, section, sector, division, partition, part, precinct, locality, area, locale, department, province, community, quarter, neighbourhood, ward: We need a new hospital in our district.
distrustful adj. distrusting, untrusting, mistrustful, doubting, chary, wary, cautious, suspicious, sceptical, doubtful, dubious, cynical, disbelieving, unbelieving, uneasy, nervous, hesitant, hesitating, unsure, uncertain, Colloq leery: She is distrustful of men who bring her flowers.
disturbance n. 1 disruption, disorder, disorganization, disarrangement, disarray; upheaval, interruption, upset, intrusion, interference: She won't tolerate any disturbance to her schedule. 2 commotion, disorder, upset, outburst, tumult, turmoil, turbulence, violence, hubbub, hullabaloo, hurly-burly, uproar, brouhaha, rumpus, brawl, mle or melee, breach of the peace, Donnybrook, fray, affray, fracas, trouble, Colloq ruckus, Brit spot of bother, Slang Brit spot of bovver: There was a disturbance at the pub yesterday.
disturbing adj. upsetting, off-putting, perturbing, troubling, unsettling, worrying, disconcerting, disquieting, alarming, distressing: There is disturbing news from the front.
diurnal adj. daily, circadian; day-to-day, regular, everyday, quotidian; daytime: Jet lag is a disturbance of the body's diurnal rhythms. Are these animals nocturnal or diurnal?
diverge v. 1 separate, radiate, spread (apart), divide, subdivide, fork, branch (off or out), ramify, split: The roads diverge further on. 2 deviate, turn aside or away, wander, digress, stray, depart, drift, divagate: Our policy diverges from that set up by the committee.
divers adj. various, several, sundry; miscellaneous, multifarious, manifold, varied, assorted, variegated, differing, different; some, numerous, many: We have the divers statements of the witnesses.
diversify v. vary, variegate, change, mix, change; spread, distribute, divide, break up, separate; branch out: We must diversify our investments to hedge against losses. Perhaps this is not a good time to diversify into other areas.
diversity n. 1 difference, dissimilarity, dissimilitude, unlikeness, disparity, deviation, divergence, departure, distinctiveness, diverseness, variation, variety, individuality, inconsistency, contrariety, discrepancy, contrast: Flowers are impressive in their diversity. 2 variety, range, extent, heterogeneity, multiplicity, multifariousness, variegation, multiformity: Democracy encourages diversity of opinion.
divest v. 1 strip, denude, rid, get rid, relieve, disencumber, deprive, dispossess; despoil, mulct: The company has been divested of all its assets. 2 divest oneself of. take or put off, doff, remove; disrobe,unclothe, undress: She divested herself of her fur coat.
divine adj. 1 godlike, godly, holy, deiform, deific, angelic, seraphic, saintly; heavenly, celestial; sacred, sanctified, hallowed, consecrated, religious, spiritual: They believe in the divine right of kings. He receives divine inspiration at divine services. 2 superhuman, supernatural, gifted, pre-eminent, superior, excellent, supreme, exalted, transcendent, extraordinary: Even the divine Homer nods. 3 great, marvellous, splendid, superlative, glorious, superb, admirable, wonderful, awesome, perfect, excellent, beautiful, Colloq super, great, terrific, smashing, fantastic, splendiferous, Colloq Brit ace, magic: They say that the new musical is simply divine. --v. 4 intuit, imagine, conjecture, guess, assume, presume, infer, suppose, hypothesize, surmise, suspect, understand, perceive, speculate, theorize, predict, foretell, have foreknowledge of; determine, discover: He had divined that she might be there. --n. 5 holy man, priest, clergyman, cleric, ecclesiastic, minister, pastor, reverend, churchman, prelate: At his club, he enjoys the company of bishops, archbishops, and other divines.
divorce n. 1 separation, split, split-up, dissolution, severance, disunion, break-up: Their divorce after twenty years surprised everyone. --v. 2 separate, divide, split (up), part, sever, detach, dissociate, disassociate; dissolve: A splinter group has divorced itself from the main party. We were divorced last year.
dock n. 1 wharf, pier, berth, jetty, quay: We went to the dock to see them off. --v. 2 (drop) anchor, berth, tie up, moor, land, put in: The ship docks at noon.
doctrine n. teaching, body of instruction, precept; principle, tenet, dogma, article of faith, canon, conviction, creed, belief, credo, opinion, idea, concept, theory, proposition, thesis, postulate: Few believe the doctrine that all men are created equal.
doddering adj. shaking, quaking, palsied, trembling, trembly, quivering, quavering, reeling, unsteady, shaky, staggering, shambling, decrepit, faltering; feeble, weak, frail, infirm; aged, old, superannuated, senile, anile: Once a vigorous sportsman, his illness has reduced him to a doddering octogenarian.
dodgy adj. tricky, dangerous, perilous, risky, difficult, ticklish, sensitive, delicate, touchy; uncertain, unreliable; rickety, Colloq chancy, hairy, Brit dicky, dicey: Climbing up the sheer face of that rock could be a bit dodgy. You shouldn't be exerting yourself with your dodgy ticker.
dole n. 1 portion, allotment, share, quota, lot, allowance, parcel; compensation, benefit, grant, award, donation, gift, largesse, alms, gratuity; Slang hand-out: The prisoners received a daily dole of bread. If you've lost your job, are you eligible for the dole? 2 distribution, apportionment, allocation, dispensation: The money was given to the disaster victims by dole. --v. 3 give (out), deal (out), distribute, hand out, mete out, share (out), dispense, allot, allocate, apportion, Colloq dish out: They dole out the reparations on the basis of need.
dolt n. fool, ass, blockhead, dunce, dullard, idiot, nitwit, ignoramus, numskull or numbskull, donkey, nincompoop, ninny, ninny-hammer, simpleton, dunderpate, dunderhead, bonehead, simpleton, twit, fat-head, goon, moron, imbecile, Colloq dope, dumb-bell, dim-wit, chump, dummy, halfwit, birdbrain, pinhead, clot, clod, chucklehead, Brit muggins, US thimble-wit, jerk, knuckle-head, lunkhead, meat-head, lame-brain, dingbat, ding-a-ling, flake: The dolt actually tried to buy striped paint!
domestic adj. 1 home, private, family, familial; residential, household: Her domestic life is a shambles. This toaster is for domestic use. 2 tame, domesticated, house-trained, house-broken: Tenants are forbidden to keep domestic animals. 3 home, native, indigenous, internal, autochthonous: The domestic market accounts for most of the company's income. --n. 4 servant, (hired) help, housekeeper, major-domo, steward: Her domestics left and she now does the cleaning herself.
dominant adj. 1 commanding, authoritative, controlling, governing, ruling, leading, reigning, influential, assertive, supreme, superior, ascendant: He has taken a dominant role in promoting foreign language teaching. 2 predominant, chief, main, principal, primary, prevailing, outstanding, pre-eminent, paramount: A large nose is a dominant characteristic in their family.
domination n. 1 authority, control, rule, power, command, influence, sway, supremacy, ascendancy, hegemony, the whip or upper hand, pre-eminence, mastery: The tsar's domination lasted for more than thirty years. 2 oppression, subjection, repression, suppression, subordination, enslavement, enthralment; dictatorship, despotism, tyranny: The Allies finally brought to an end the Fascist domination of Europe.
dominion n. 1 rule, authority, control, dominance, domination, grasp, mastery, grip, command, jurisdiction, power, sovereignty, sway, ascendancy, pre-eminence, primacy, supremacy, hegemony: The magician claimed dominion over the entire universe. 2 domain, realm, territory, region, area, country, kingdom: For six generations the dynasty ruled over its dominions on five continents.
donation n. 1 gift, contribution, largesse, present, grant, award, alms, offering, bequest: Donations have exceeded our expectations. 2 giving, contribution, bestowal, allotment, provision, offer: We are seeking the donation of a piano for our theatre group.
doom n. fate, karma, destiny, fortune, lot, kismet; downfall, destruction, death, ruin, extinction, annihilation, death, end, termination, terminus: The young warrior had defied the Snake God, and his doom was sealed.
dope n. 1 See dolt. 2 narcotic, drug, opiate, hallucinogen, psychedelic, Slang upper, downer: He was caught trying to smuggle dope past customs. 3 information, data, facts, news, details, story, scoop, Slang info, low-down, score, Brit gen, US and Canadian poop: The real dope on the minister is sensational!
dose n. 1 portion, quantity, amount, measure, dosage: How big a dose of the medication did the doctor prescribe? --v. 2 dispense, administer, prescribe: I was dosed with medicine and slept all day.
dote v. Often, dote on or upon. be fond of, be infatuated with, love, idolize, hold dear, adore, make much of; coddle, pamper, spoil, indulge: I think she dotes on her husband at the expense of the children. What we need is a doting grandmother to babysit when we want to go out.
double-cross v. cheat, defraud, swindle, hoodwink, trick, betray, deceive, mislead, play false with, Colloq two-time: He swore he'd give me the money but he double-crossed me and kept it himself.
doubtful adj. 1 in doubt, dubious, questionable, open to question, problematic, debatable, disputable, uncertain, unpredictable, indeterminate, unsettled, unresolved, conjectural, indefinite, unclear, obscure, vague, anybody's guess , Colloq up in the air: The result is very doubtful. 2 sceptical, unconvinced, distrustful, mistrustful, suspicious, uncertain, unsure, hesitant, hesitating, vacillating, indecisive: I am doubtful whether an investigation will yield anything. 3 dubious, questionable, shady, louche, disreputable, controversial: Those are people of doubtful reputation.
dour adj. 1 sullen, sour, unfriendly, cold, gloomy, morose, dreary, grim, cheerless, dismal, forbidding: We went to Spain, away from the dour northern climate. 2 hard, tough, austere, severe, hardy, inflexible, obstinate, stubborn, unyielding, uncompromising, strict, rigid, obdurate, stern, harsh, adamant, Colloq hard-nosed: Her father was a dour Scot who wouldn't let me in the house.
down and out adj. 1 indigent, poverty-stricken, poor, penniless, destitute, impoverished, Colloq broke, US on the skids, on skid row, on the bum, Slang Brit skint: Those vagrants are down and out and need help, not pity. --n. 2 down-and-out. derelict, beggar, outcast, tramp, vagrant, vagabond, US bum: He took to drink and ended up a complete down-and-out.
downgrade v. 1 demote, dethrone, humble, lower, reduce, displace, depose, dispossess, disfranchise or disenfranchise, US military bust; Colloq bring or take down a peg: He was downgraded from supervisor to foreman. 2 belittle, minimize, play down, disparage, decry, denigrate, run down, US and Canadian downplay: How could she downgrade her own sister? --n. 3 descent, decline, declension, (downward) slope, gradient, grade, inclination: Apply the brake as you approach the downgrade. 4 on the downgrade. on the wane, waning, declining, falling, slipping, falling off, losing ground, going downhill, US and Canadian on the skids: After the drug scandal, her popularity was on the downgrade.
downpour n. rainstorm, deluge, inundation, cloudburst, thunder-shower, thunderstorm, torrential rain, torrent; monsoon: We got caught in that downpour without an umbrella.
downtrodden adj. subjugated, oppressed, burdened, plagued, afflicted, exploited, overwhelmed, cowed, overcome, beaten, abused, mistreated, maltreated, tyrannized, Colloq beat: This poor, downtrodden wreck of a man had once been on top.
downwards adv. down, downward, below, lower: We moved downwards, towards the centre of the earth.
draft n. 1 plan, sketch, drawing, outline, rough (sketch), blueprint, diagram, prospectus: We must have the draft of the new design by morning. 2 bill of exchange, cheque, money order, postal order; letter of credit: Our customer issued a draft in full payment. --v. 3 sketch, delineate, outline, design, plan, frame, block out, compose, diagram, draw (up): The art department has drafted the layout for the new encyclopedia.
drain n. 1 ditch, channel, trench, culvert, conduit, pipe, gutter, outlet, watercourse, sewer, cloaca: The storm drains have overflowed. 2 depletion, reduction, sapping, sap, exhaustion, strain, drag; outgo, outflow, withdrawal, disbursement, expenditure: The cost of the new roof was a drain on our resources. 3 down the drain. wasted, gone, thrown away, lost, Slang up the spout: All that money spent on his education went down the drain. --v. 4 draw off, tap, extract, remove, take away, withdraw, pump off or out; empty, evacuate, drink up or down, quaff, swallow, finish: After washing the lettuce, drain off the water. He drained the glass in one gulp. 5 consume, use up, exhaust, sap, deplete, bleed, strain, tax, spend; weaken, debilitate, impair, cripple: The car repairs drained my bank account. After climbing to the top of the mountain, we were completely drained. 6 seep, trickle, ooze, drip, leave, go or flow from or out of, disappear (from), ebb: Let the pus drain from the boil. The blood drained from his face when he saw her.
dramatic adj. 1 theatric(al), dramaturgic(al), Thespian, histrionic, stage: She was studying the dramatic works of Shakespeare. There will be a festival of dramatic arts at the centre next week. 2 vivid, sensational, startling, breathtaking, sudden, striking, noticeable, extraordinary, impressive, marked, shocking, expressive, graphic, effective; complete, considerable, radical, major: A dramatic change has come over him since meeting her. 3 flamboyant, melodramatic, colourful, showy, stirring, spectacular; theatrical, histrionic, exaggerated, overdone: His presentation was quite dramatic, well staged and with much arm-waving.
dramatize v. exaggerate, overplay, overstate, overdo, make a production or show (out) of, Colloq lay it on (thick), pile it on, ham (something or it) up: He always dramatizes everything way out of proportion.
drapery n. drape, curtain; hanging, valance, pelmet, tapestry, arras, portire, lambrequin, drop: Which colour will you choose for the drapery?
draught n. 1 breeze, breath (of air), (light) wind, current (of air), puff (of air or wind): You'll get a cold sitting in the draught. 2 dose, portion, measure, quantity, drink, swallow, sip, nip, tot, potation, dram, gulp, Colloq swig, tipple: The doctor recommended a draught of this tonic before meals.
drawback n. disadvantage, hindrance, stumbling-block, obstacle, impediment, hurdle, obstruction, snag, problem, difficulty, hitch, catch, handicap, liability, flaw, defect, detriment, Colloq fly in the ointment; Taboo nigger in the woodpile: Lack of education is a serious drawback to getting a good job.
drawn adj. haggard, worn out, tired, fatigued, strained, pinched, tense, exhausted: Sidonia looks a bit drawn after her ordeal. dread v. 1 fear, be afraid of, apprehend, anticipate, flinch, shrink or recoil from, cringe or quail or blench or wince at, view with horror or alarm: She dreads any kind of surgery. --n. 2 fear, fright, fearfulness, trepidation, apprehension, apprehensiveness, uneasiness, anticipation, alarm, nervousness, qualm, queasiness, misgiving, dismay, worry, anxiety, consternation, concern, distress, perturbation, disquiet, aversion, horror, terror, panic, Colloq cold feet, butterflies (in the stomach), the jitters; Slang the heebie-jeebies, the willies, the collywobbles: I regarded the history exam with dread. --adj. 3 feared, dreaded, dreadful, terrifying, terrible: Before us, breathing fire, was the dread dragon of the Druids.
dream n. 1 reverie, day-dream, delusion, fantasy, hallucination, illusion, vision, mirage, pipedream, (flight of) fancy, speculation: When I awoke I realized that my winning the lottery had just been a dream. --v. 2 imagine, fancy, conjure up, hallucinate: I dreamt I dwelt in marble halls.
dreamlike adj. unreal, fantastic, unbelievable, phantasmagoric(al), hallucinatory or hallucinative or hallucinational, surreal, delusionary or delusional, illusionary or illusional, delusive or delusory, illusory or illusive, insubstantial or unsubstantial, imaginary, chimeric(al), fanciful, fancied, visionary: His plans have a dreamlike quality about them that make them impractical.
dreary adj. 1 dismal, joyless, cheerless, gloomy, bleak, drear, sombre, doleful, depressing, wretched; sad, melancholy, downcast, depressed, funereal, glum, unhappy, forlorn, mournful, morose, blue, miserable: One more day on these dreary moors and I shall go mad. Caroline was again in a dreary mood. 2 boring, lifeless, colourless, ennuyant, drab, dull, arid, dry, uninteresting, dead, monotonous, prosaic, tedious, tiresome, tiring, wearisome, wearying, humdrum, ordinary, vapid, run-of-the-mill, unstimulating, unexciting: Do you mean to tell me that that dreary book is a best seller!
drench v. soak, saturate, wet, flood, inundate, immerse, drown: She had no coat or umbrella and got completely drenched in the storm.
dressmaker n. seamstress, tailor, couturier or couturire, modiste: She's at the dressmaker's having a ball gown fitted.
drift v. 1 coast, float, waft: A log drifted by on the tide. 2 wander, roam, meander, stray, rove, ramble, Colloq mosey: He seems just to drift through life, without a purpose. --n. 3 trend, tendency, direction, course, current, bias, inclination, flow, sweep, bent: The drift of the conversation seemed to be towards politics. 4 intention, meaning, purport, purpose, aim, object, tenor, tone, spirit, colour, essence, gist, significance, import: Offended by the drift of her remarks, I excused myself. 5 accumulation, pile, heap, mass, bank, mound, dune: After the snowstorm, a huge drift blocked the door.
drill v. 1 bore, penetrate, pierce, cut a hole: The thieves drilled into the safe. 2 rehearse, train, practise, exercise, teach, instruct, school, tutor, coach, indoctrinate; discipline: We were thoroughly drilled in the Latin conjugations and declensions. --n. 3 auger, (brace and) bit, gimlet: The bit for this drill is no longer sharp. 4 practice, training, repetition, exercise, rehearsal; discipline: Tomorrow there will be a complete drill of the parts of speech.
drip v. 1 dribble, trickle, drop; drizzle, sprinkle: The tap began to drip and kept me awake all night. --n. 2 dribble, trickle, drop, dripping: Yes, it was the drip from the tap that kept me awake. 3 milksop, bore, wet blanket, killjoy, damper, Colloq Brit wet, weed, Colloq wimp, Slang pill, drag, US and Canadian milquetoast: Must you invite that drip George?
drivel v. 1 dribble, drool, slobber, slaver: You're drivelling all over the front of your shirt! 2 babble, prate, prattle, gibber, jabber, burble, gabble, chatter, blether or US blather, Colloq jibber-jabber, gab, Brit rabbit or witter or natter on, US run off at the mouth: She keeps drivelling on about her family. --n. 3 gibberish, rubbish, (stuff and) nonsense, twaddle, balderdash, hogwash, Colloq eyewash, tripe, garbage, malarkey, hooey, hot air, bosh, boloney or baloney, Slang crap, bull, bilge (water), codswallop, US horse feathers, Taboo bullshit, balls, Brit (load of old) cobblers: I've never heard so much drivel from a candidate in my entire life!
drop n. 1 globule, bead, drip, droplet, tear: A drop of sweat hung from his nose. 2 bit, spot, particle, taste, dram, sip, nip, pinch, dash, dab, Colloq smidgen or smidgin: Add a drop of milk before kneading the dough. 3 descent, fall: There was a sheer drop of a thousand feet from the ledge into the chasm below. 4 decline, slope, fall-off, drop-off, declivity, incline: The drop is about 15 feet in 100. --v. 5 drip, trickle, dribble: As the water drops, filling the tube, the float rises. 6 fall, descend, sink, drop away or down or off, dive, plunge, plummet, decline, collapse: The barometer dropped 10 millibars in 10 minutes. Near that rock, the road drops to the beach. At the first shot, we dropped to the ground. 7 desert, forsake, give up, abandon, leave, quit, throw over, jilt, discard, reject, repudiate, renounce, Colloq chuck, ditch, dump; relinquish, let go, discontinue, stop, cease, end: After what he said, she dropped him like a hot potato. I wish you'd drop the subject of my disability. 8 release, let go of, shed, cast off, discard, doff: Deciduous trees drop their leaves in winter. 9 omit, leave out, exclude, eliminate: To avoid confusion with his father, he dropped his middle initial. 10 dismiss, let go, fire, discharge, oust, Colloq chiefly Brit sack, give (someone) the sack: They dropped her after a week's trial. 11 decline, decrease, drop or fall off, diminish, slacken, slack or taper off, subside, lessen: Demand for swimsuits drops during the winter. 12 drop in (on). visit, call (on), pop in (on), come by, stop in: Viola dropped in for tea yesterday. 13 drop out. withdraw (from), leave; rusticate, depart, decamp, go away or off, take off, turn off: She dropped out of school. After winning the award, Crater dropped out and hasn't been seen since.
drowsy adj. sleepy, heavy-lidded, groggy, somnolent, dozy, oscitant; nodding, yawning; torpid, sluggish, tired, weary, listless, lethargic, lazy: We all felt a bit drowsy after that big dinner.
drug n. 1 medication, medicine, medicament, pharmaceutical, remedy, cure, treatment; cure-all, panacea: My doctor prescribes too many drugs. 2 opiate, narcotic, stimulant, tranquillizer, antidepressant, hallucinogen(ic), psychedelic, hypnotic, soporific, sedative, analgesic, painkiller, Slang dope, downer, upper: Can they control the traffic in drugs? --v. 3 dose, medicate, treat: I was drugged with antihistamines and unable to drive. 4 anaesthetize, dope, deaden, knock out, sedate, stupefy, numb, benumb, dull, narcotize; poison, Slang slip (someone) a Mickey (Finn): The victim had been drugged and kidnapped.
drunk adj. 1 drunken, intoxicated, inebriated, besotted, tipsy, groggy, sotted, crapulent or crapulous, in one's cups, under the weather, under the influence, maudlin, ebriate, ebriose, ebrious, Colloq soused, pickled, high (as a kite), tight, boozed, boozy, lit (up), half-seas-over, three or four sheets to the wind, out (cold), under the table, Brit squiffy; Slang pie-eyed, loaded, stoned, stewed (to the gills), (well-)oiled, bombed (out of one's mind), crocked, plastered, tanked, sloshed, polluted, stinko, smashed, blotto, pissed: He was so drunk he tried to fly. 2 exhilarated, excited, exuberant, invigorated, inspirited, animated, ecstatic; flushed, feverish, inflamed, aflame, fervent, fervid, delirious: Since he became a director, he's been drunk with power. --n. 3 drunkard, drinker, toper, tippler, sot, soak, bibber, winebibber; dipsomaniac, alcoholic, problem drinker; Colloq guzzler, swiller, sponge, Slang wino, boozer, dipso, lush, souse, alky, US juicer, juice-head, rummy: The drunks who volunteered were registered for treatment. 4 carouse, bacchanal, carousal, bacchanalia, revel, Slang bender, tear, jag, bat, US and Canadian toot, Chiefly Brit pub-crawl: I went off on a wild drunk the night before my wedding.
dry adj. 1 dehydrated, desiccated, arid, sear, parched, waterless, moistureless; barren, bare, fruitless: With no rain for a month, the dry earth yielded no crops. 2 dreary, boring, tedious, tiresome, wearisome, wearying, tiring, dull, uninteresting, monotonous, prosaic, commonplace, stale, uninspired; plain, unadorned, unembellished: The minister's speech was as dry as could be, a litany of dry statistics. 3 witty, droll, wry, cynical, biting, sarcastic, cutting, keen, sly, ironic: Oscar Wilde was known for his dry witticisms. --v. 4 dehydrate, desiccate, parch: As the rainfall subsided, the land dried and changed into a desert. 5 dry up or out, wither, shrivel, shrink, wilt: The plants dried because they weren't watered.
dud n. 1 failure, Colloq flop, lead balloon, lemon, washout, Colloq US and Canadian dog, clinker: Her second novel certainly proved a dud - it sold only ten copies. --adj. 2 worthless, valueless, broken, unusable, useless, inoperative, non-functioning, inoperative, malfunctioning, Colloq kaput, bust(ed), Brit duff: They deliberately supplied us with dud ammunition.
due adj. 1 payable, owed, owing, unpaid, outstanding, in arrears: The rent is due tomorrow. 2 fitting, right, rightful, correct, proper, appropriate, apropos, apposite, suitable, apt, meet; deserved, (well-)earned, merited, just, justified: Was she treated with due respect? 3 necessary, needed, adequate, sufficient, enough, satisfactory; ample, plenty of: I do not think my case was given due consideration. 4 expected, scheduled, anticipated: He was due on the two o'clock plane. --adv. 5 directly, exactly, precisely, straight: Go due east to the river, then turn north.
duff adj. bad, useless, worthless, unworkable, inoperable, inoperative, broken; fake, false, counterfeit, Colloq dud, phoney or US also phony: We couldn't get that duff radio to work. We were provided with duff papers for crossing the border.
dull adj. 1 stupid, slow-witted, dense, stolid, bovine, cloddish, clod-like, backward, obtuse, doltish, crass, dumb, Colloq thick, dim, dim-witted, Brit dim as a Toc H lamp: He might be a dull student but he's a brilliant artist. 2 insensitive, numb, insensible, imperceptive or impercipient, unresponsive, indifferent, unfeeling, unsympathetic, callous, hardened, hard, inured, obtundent: He knew that he could expect only a dull response to his pleading. 3 lifeless, indifferent, unresponsive, sluggish, slow, listless, inactive, torpid: The market for luxury cars is a little dull now. 4 boring, tiresome, tedious, monotonous, uninspired, uninspiring, unoriginal, uninteresting, humdrum: All work and no play make Jack a dull boy. 5 dismal, dreary, depressing, sombre, grey, dark, murky, gloomy, cloudy, clouded, overcast, sunless: If the day is dull, the photographs will show it. 6 blunted, blunt; obtuse: I nicked myself with that dull razor. 7 hazy, blurry, opaque, drab: Rub the dull film off that silver goblet. 8 muffled, numbing, deadened, muted, indistinct: I've had a dull pain in my arm all day. --v. 9 allay, assuage, relieve, mitigate, lessen, reduce: Weeping dulls the inner pain. 10 dim, tarnish, obscure, bedim, blur, cloud, becloud: A mist dulled the rich colours of the glen. 11 stupefy, narcotize, numb, benumb, desensitize, deaden, blunt, obtund: His war experiences had dulled his feelings towards others.
dumb adj. 1 mute, speechless, voiceless; silent, quiet, taciturn, mum, wordless; inarticulate: She was struck dumb with astonishment. 2 dull, stupid, Colloq thick: He's too dumb to understand what you are saying.
dumbfounded adj. dumfounded, amazed, shocked, surprised, startled, astonished, astounded, bewildered, staggered, floored, nonplussed, overwhelmed, speechless, stunned, thunderstruck, dazzled, dazed, dumbstruck, taken aback, confused, confounded, bemused, perplexed, baffled, disconcerted, Colloq bowled over, flabbergasted, knocked out, thrown (off), US thrown for a loss, Brit knocked for six, knocked sideways: She is dumbfounded that he proposed marriage.
dump v. 1 unload, offload, empty, drop, deposit, throw or fling down, tip: They dumped the topsoil all over the path. 2 get rid of, throw away, scrap, discard, ditch, jettison, dispose of, reject, tip, toss out or away, Colloq junk, chuck out or away: We dumped all the food when the fridge broke down. --n. 3 junk-yard, rubbish heap or Brit tip, US garbage dump: You'll have to take this garden refuse to the dump.
dun v. press, importune, solicit, plague, nag, pester, Slang US bug: The gas company has been dunning me to pay the bill.
dungeon n. donjon, keep, cell, prison, lock-up, oubliette, black hole, stronghold: Throw the infidels into the dungeon and give them twenty lashes!
duplicate adj. 1 identical; twin, matching: They sent me duplicate tickets by mistake. --n. 2 (exact or carbon) copy, photocopy, machine copy, double, clone, (perfect) match, facsimile, twin, reproduction, replica, replication, look-alike, Trade Mark Xerox (copy), Slang (dead) ringer: This painting looks like a duplicate of the one you bought. --v. 3 copy, photocopy, clone, match, replicate, imitate, reproduce, double, Trade Mark Xerox; repeat, equal: Would you please duplicate this letter for me? Can he duplicate his performance in the Commonwealth Games?
duress n. 1 coercion, threat, pressure, constraint, compulsion; force, power: The boys wash the dishes only under duress. 2 confinement, imprisonment, incarceration, captivity, restraint, Literary durance: There were workhouses, prisons, and other forms of duress.
dusky adj. 1 dark, black, ebony, sable, jet-black; swarthy, swart, dark-complected, dark-complexioned: 'Dusky diamonds' is another name for coal. A dusky gentleman offered to see her home safely. 2 shadowy, shady, dim, dark, unilluminated, unlit, murky, subfusc, subfuscous, gloomy, obscure: An ominous figure was lurking in the dusky area under the stairs.
duty n. 1 responsibility, obligation, burden, onus, devoir, office, work, task, assignment, job, stint, chore, occupation, calling, function, role, part, bit, charge: Every man is expected to do his duty. 2 respect, deference, loyalty, fealty, fidelity, faithfulness, allegiance: I think she did it out of a sense of duty to her family. 3 tax, excise, tariff, impost, levy, customs: You will have to pay duty on that whisky.
dwell v. 1 reside, abide, live, lodge, stay, remain, rest, Formal domicile: After the father's death, the mother dwelt with her daughter. 2 dwell on or upon. harp on, persist in, emphasize, stress, focus on, linger or tarry over, elaborate (on); labour: Why must you always dwell on a person's shortcomings?
dwindle v. diminish, decrease, shrink, lessen, wane, fade, contract, condense, reduce, peter out, waste away, die out or down or away, ebb, decline, subside, taper off, shrivel (up or away): The last days of summer dwindled away. His funds have dwindled until today he has nothing.
dynamic adj. dynamical, vigorous, active, forceful, energetic, potent, powerful, high-powered, lively, spry, vital, electric, spirited, zealous, eager, emphatic: We are seeking a dynamic salesman for our Reading office.
dynasty n. line, family, heritage, house: The Ming dynasty ruled China for more than 300 years.
eagerness n. 1 avidity, zeal, earnestness, keenness, enthusiasm, fervour, hunger, vehemence, animation, vitality, appetite, zest, relish, spirit, spiritedness, gusto, verve, dash, lan, vim, vigour, energy, Colloq get-up-and-go, zip, go: Such eagerness for learning is rare. In his eagerness to please everyone he satisfies no one. 2 desire, longing, wishing, yearning: He observed the eagerness, the open hunger, with which she now waited for Mr Browning.
ear n. 1 attention, heed, notice, regard, consideration: See if you can get his ear for a moment between meetings. 2 sensitivity, appreciation, taste, discrimination: She has an excellent ear for the right expression.
earn v. 1 merit, deserve, be worthy of, be entitled to, win, warrant, rate, qualify for, have a claim or right to: Peter has earned everyone's respect. 2 make, pocket, gross, net, clear, realize, receive, get, procure, collect, reap, bring in, take home; draw, Colloq US pull down: It is still the case that most men earn more than their wives.
earnings n.pl. wages, salary, income, compensation, pay, stipend, emolument, proceeds, return, revenue, yield, takings, Slang take: The interest from tax-free bonds was not included in my earnings.
earthly adj. 1 terrestrial, terrene, telluric: Extraterrestrial beings might be unable to survive in our earthly atmosphere. 2 worldly, mundane, material, materialistic, physical, non-spiritual, sensual, carnal, fleshly, corporeal, base, natural: He has forsaken earthly pleasures in favour of spiritual pursuits. 3 human, temporal, secular, profane, mortal, physical, non-spiritual, material: His earthly remains were committed to the sea. 4 conceivable, imaginable, feasible, possible: What earthly reason could she have had for kissing me?
ease n. 1 comfort, repose, well-being, relaxation, leisure, rest, contentment, calmness, tranquillity, serenity, peacefulness, peace, peace and quiet: After 50 years of hard work, she felt entitled to a few years of ease. 2 easiness, simplicity, facility, effortlessness, adeptness: He passed the other runners with ease. 3 affluence, wealth, prosperity, luxury, opulence, abundance, plenty: He has always led a life of ease, never having had to work. 4 naturalness, informality, unaffectedness, ingenuousness, casualness, artlessness, insouciance, nonchalance, aplomb; unconcern: I admire the ease with which she converses with complete strangers. --v. 5 comfort, relax, calm, tranquillize, quieten, still, pacify, soothe, disburden: It eased his mind to learn that there was a reserve budget for emergencies. 6 lessen, diminish, abate, mitigate, reduce, decrease, allay, alleviate, assuage, mollify, appease, palliate, quiet, relieve: Her anxiety was considerably eased by the news that John would not need an operation after all. 7 manoeuvre, manipulate, inch, guide, steer, slip: The helmsman eased the ship into dock. 8 facilitate, expedite, simplify, smooth, further, clear, assist, aid, advance, forward, help: Having a wealthy father eased her way in life.
easy adj. 1 simple, effortless, plain, clear, straightforward, hands down, uncomplicated, elementary, foolproof; easy as pie, easy as can be: Feeding goldfish is an easy job that children can undertake for themselves. 2 carefree, easygoing, casual, lenient, undemanding, relaxed, quiet, serene, restful, tranquil, peaceful, untroubled, undisturbed, unoppressive, gentle, mild, calm, comfortable, cosy, unhurried, leisurely: He has a pretty easy life now that he's retired. 3 light, lenient, undemanding, mild, flexible, indulgent, tolerant: You really should be easy on him after what he's been through. 4 tractable, pliant, docile, compliant, submissive, acquiescent, amenable, accommodating, soft, suggestible, credulous, trusting, weak, easygoing: He was an easy victim for confidence tricksters. She has the reputation of being a woman of easy virtue. 5 unstrained, gentle, moderate, unhurried, leisurely, even, steady, undemanding, comfortable, unexacting: They kept up an easy pace of about five miles a hour. 6 affable, friendly, amiable, amicable, agreeable, outgoing, informal, unceremonious, down-to-earth, unreserved, relaxing, natural, relaxed, easygoing: We found them easy to be with. --adv. 7 effortlessly; calmly, unexcitedly, temperately, peacefully, tranquilly, serenely, nonchalantly, casually: Take it easy and don't get so worked up about things.
eat v. dine, lunch, breakfast, sup, break bread, snack, have a bite; consume, devour, take (in) nourishment, Colloq put or pack away, Slang nosh, put or tie on the nosebag or US and Canadian feed-bag: I'm not hungry, thank you: I've already eaten.
ebb v. 1 recede, flow back, subside, go out, go down; fall back or away, retreat, retrocede, retire: The tide ebbed, leaving the boat stranded. 2 decline, flag, decay, wane, diminish, decrease, drop, slacken, fade (away), drain (away), dwindle, peter out, waste (away), deteriorate: His enthusiasm for exercise is beginning to ebb. --n. 3 low tide, low water, ebb tide, low point: The rocks appear when the sea is at its ebb. 4 decline, decay, decrease, diminution, wane, drop, slackening (off), dwindling, lessening, deterioration, degeneration: She was no longer willing to contend with the ebb and flow of his temper.
eccentricity n. 1 unconventionality, unusualness, uncommonness, irregularity, nonconformity, individuality, individualism, singularity, uniqueness, strangeness, oddness, bizarreness, distinctiveness, capriciousness, weirdness: Why should someone be criticized for eccentricity? 2 idiosyncrasy, quirk, peculiarity, mannerism, crotchet, aberration, anomaly, oddity, curiosity, caprice: Eating crackers in bed is only one of her eccentricities.
eclipse v. 1 conceal, hide, blot out, obscure, block, veil, shroud, cover, darken: A black cloud eclipsed the moon. 2 overshadow, obscure, surpass, top, outshine: His career was eclipsed by his wife's brilliant successes. --n. 3 concealment, covering, hiding, blocking, blockage, occultation, obscuring, obscuration, darkening, shading, dimming: Though good may suffer an eclipse, it can never be extinguished. 4 decline, downturn, slump; recession: After the scandal, her career went into eclipse.
economize v. save, cut back, husband, retrench; tighten one's belt, cut corners or costs, scrimp, skimp, pinch pennies: Without the extra income, we'll have to economize on something.
ecstasy n. 1 delight, joy, rapture, bliss, transport, nympholepsy or nympholepsia, happiness, gladness, elation, pleasure, enjoyment, gratification; heaven on earth: The prospect of being with her again filled me with ecstasy. 2 exaltation, frenzy, thrill, elation, paroxysm, excitement: The ecstasy of space flight is impossible to describe.
edge n. 1 brink, verge, border, side, rim, lip, brim; fringe, margin, boundary, bound, limit, bourn, perimeter, periphery: I was hanging on to the very edge of the cliff. The edge of the handkerchief was trimmed with lace. 2 acuteness, sharpness, keenness: That hunting knife has quite an edge. 3 harshness, sharpness, acrimony, pungency, force, urgency, effectiveness, incisiveness, causticity, virulence, vehemence: There was an edge to her voice when she told me not to bother her. 4 advantage, head start, superiority, lead, upper hand: You're holding the gun, so I guess you have the edge on me. 5 on edge. on tenterhooks, nervous, touchy, sensitive, prickly, itchy, tense, irascible, crabbed, irritable, peevish, apprehensive, with one's heart in one's mouth, edgy, anxious, ill at ease, restive, restless, fidgety, Colloq uptight, like a cat on a hot tin roof: She was on edge waiting for the exam results. --v. 6 inch, move, sidle, crawl, creep, steal, worm, work (one's way): The burglar was edging along the wall, 30 storeys above the street.
edification n. enlightenment, improvement, uplifting, enlightening, guidance, education, information, tuition, teaching, schooling, instruction: The exhibition is designed for both edification and enjoyment.
edition n. number, issue, printing, print run; copy; version: The first Monday edition carried the news of the break-in, and a later edition reported the detention of a suspect.
editorial n. Brit leader, leading article; op-ed article, think-piece, opinion piece, position statement; essay, article, column: Did you see the editorial about the Middle East situation in today's paper?
educated adj. 1 cultivated, cultured, erudite, well-read, lettered, literary, scholarly, learned; (well-)informed, knowledgeable, enlightened: There is no real evidence that educated people enjoy greater job satisfaction than those who leave school at 16. I haven't got the answer, but I could make an educated guess. 2 refined, polished, cultivated, civilized; discerning, critical, sensitive: She has an educated palate and really knows her wines.
educational adj. 1 academic, scholastic, pedagogical, instructional: This is one of the best educational centres in the world. 2 informative, instructive, enlightening, edifying, eye-opening, revelatory, educative: A year spent abroad is always educational.
effect n. 1 result, consequence, outcome, conclusion, upshot, aftermath, impact: The effects of the storm could be seen everywhere. 2 effectiveness, efficacy, force, power, capacity, potency, influence, impression, impact, Colloq clout, punch: His threats had no effect. 3 significance, meaning, signification, purport, sense, essence, drift, implication, import, tenor, purpose, intent, intention, object, objective: She said 'Get lost', or words to that effect. 4 impact, impression, form, sensation: He didn't mean that, he just said it for effect. 5 in effect. effectively, virtually, for (all) practical purposes, so to speak, more or less; actually, in (point of) fact, really, essentially, basically, at bottom, in truth, truly, to all intents and purposes, at the end of the day, any way you look at it: She always spoke of him as her adopted son and this, in effect, was what he was. 6 take effect. become operative or operational, come into force, begin or start to work or function or operate: The regulation doesn't take effect till next week. --v. 7 bring about, cause, make happen or take place, effectuate, achieve, accomplish, secure, obtain, make, execute, carry out, produce, create: The opposition was unable to effect any change in the law.
effects n.pl. belongings, (personal) property, gear, possessions, stuff, things, paraphernalia, chattels, goods, Colloq junk, crap, Brit clobber, Taboo slang US shit: His personal effects were left scattered around the house.
effectuate v. bring about, effect, carry out, implement, accomplish, do, execute, realize, achieve; cause, make happen: It is unclear just how she will effectuate her escape.
effervescent n. 1 bubbling, fizzy, carbonated, sparkling, fizzing, gassy; foaming, foamy, frothing, frothy, bubbly: I prefer effervescent mineral water to still. 2 bubbling, bubbly, high-spirited, vivacious, ebullient, lively, exuberant, buoyant, animated, lively, exhilarated, excited, enthusiastic, irrepressible: Jeanette's effervescent personality endeared her to everyone who met her.
efficient adj. unwasteful, economic, thrifty; effective, efficacious, effectual, competent, productive, proficient, operative: The technique for producing electrical power from tidal action has not yet proved efficient.
effortless adj. easy (as pie or as A, B, C, or as 1, 2, 3), simple, painless, smooth, trouble-free, uncomplicated: She admired the apparently effortless grace of the dancer.
effusive adj. demonstrative, gushing, (over)enthusiastic, unrestrained, unchecked, unreserved, expansive, emotional, exuberant, rhapsodic, ebullient, lavish, voluble, profuse; fulsome: Her aunt greeted her with an effusive outpouring of affection.egoistic adj. egoistical, self-centred, egocentric, narcissistic, self-seeking, self-absorbed, selfish, self-serving, self-indulgent, self-important: She is too egoistic to consider anyone but herself.
eject v. 1 force or drive out, expel, oust, remove, get rid of, evict, Colloq throw or kick or boot out: They were ejected for causing a disturbance. 2 expel, emit, throw up or out, spew (forth), discharge, spout, disgorge, vomit (up or forth), send out or forth; ooze, exude, extravasate: The volcano ejected boulders the size of houses. 3 discharge, dismiss, cashier, drum out, lay off, declare or make redundant, Colloq fire, sack, boot out, axe, give the sack or boot or axe, give (someone) his or her marching orders or US also walking papers, send packing: He was ejected for stealing paper clips.
elaboration n. 1 enhancement, refinement, enrichment, improvement, amelioration, melioration, betterment; embellishment, adornment, garnish, garnishment, decoration, over-decoration, gingerbread, Slang bells and whistles: The customers always welcome elaboration of the equipment. 2 enlargement, development, amplification, expansion: The argument requires further elaboration.
elastic adj. 1 flexible, stretchable, stretchy, stretch, bendable, pliable, springy, plastic, extensile, extensible, expansible, expandable, contractile, resilient, bouncy, compressible: Is it elastic enough to stretch round that box? 2 adjustable, adaptable, accommodating, flexible: The schedule for our main project is elastic, so we can fit in additional tasks at very short notice.
elated adj. exhilarated, uplifted, elevated, gleeful, joyful, jubilant, joyous, exultant, ecstatic, blissful, happy, delighted, euphoric, overjoyed, excited, thrilled, transported, pleased (as Punch), on top of the world, on cloud nine, Colloq tickled, tickled pink, Brit chuffed, over the moon, in the seventh heaven, US in seventh heaven: We were elated to learn that our daughter had won first prize.
elderly adj. 1 old, past middle age, oldish, advanced in years, of advanced age, along in years, grey, ageing, aged, venerable; hoary, ancient, senescent, decrepit, superannuated; senile, anile; Colloq over the hill, past it, long in the tooth, having one foot in the grave, old-fogyish or old-fogeyish: Today, a person isn't considered elderly till he's past 65. --n. 2 the elderly. the retired, the old, senior citizens, pensioners, OAP's, old-age pensioners, golden-agers, Colloq old-timers, (old) geezers, (old) fogies or fogeys, Brit wrinklies: The elderly constitute an increasingly large body of voters.
election n. poll, vote, referendum, plebiscite; selection, choice, choosing, nomination, designation, appointment; voting, electing: They held an election and Michael lost. The election of a new social secretary is required.
electric adj. charged, tense, energized, stimulating, exciting, thrilling, galvanizing, electrifying, moving, stirring: As the jury filed in, the atmosphere in the courtroom was electric.
electrify v. 1 startle, shock, stun, jolt, stagger, astound, jar, astonish, amaze: We were electrified by the news of the disaster. 2 excite, galvanize, animate, move, rouse, stir, stimulate, vitalize, fire, thrill, arouse: His fiery oratory electrified the audience.
elegant adj. 1 tasteful, exquisite, handsome, beautiful, comely, dapper, smart, well turned out; graceful, choice, superior, fine, select, refined, delicate, discerning, artistic; dignified, genteel, sophisticated, cultivated, polished, urbane, Chesterfieldian, suave, soign(e), debonair, courtly, to the manner born, well-bred, well-born, high-born: Desmond and Elizabeth are such an elegant couple! 2 artistic, stylish, modish, la mode, chic, fashionable, Colloq in, with it: The newly refurbished rooms are very elegant. 3 luxurious, sumptuous, grand, opulent, plush, Colloq posh, swank, swanky, ritzy, fancy: We stayed in a very elegant West End hotel. 4 apt, clever, ingenious, neat: What is needed is a more elegant solution to the problem.
elemental adj. basic, fundamental, primal, original, primordial, primitive: Elemental religion focused on worship of the sun and fertility.
elevated adj. 1 raised, upraised, uplifted, lifted (up): Only three hands were elevated in opposition and the motion was carried. 2 uplifted, noble, lofty, high, grand, exalted, dignified, eminent, pre-eminent, ennobled, prominent, notable, illustrious, distinguished, imposing, impressive, sublime: He has rather elevated notions of morality. 3 elated, cheerful, happy, exhilarated, animated, joyful, glad: Her elevated spirits and pleasant countenance make her a welcome guest.
elfin adj. 1 elvish, elfish, elf-like, impish, puckish, frolicsome, sprightly, arch, playful, mischievous, tricky: I suppose she has a certain elfin charm, but I don't like her. 2 small, wee, diminutive, tiny, little, dainty, Lilliputian: This is a delightful tale of elfin folk and magic birds.
eligible adj. 1 fit, worthy, qualified, proper, suitable, appropriate, fitting: Is he an eligible candidate for the post? 2 single, unmarried, unwed, available: He is one of the few eligible bachelors in the town.
lite n. 1 elite, gentry, aristocracy, aristocrats, elect, upper class, nobility, privileged class, blue bloods, crme de la crme, haut monde, jet set, jet-setters, US Four Hundred, FFV, First Families of Virginia, Colloq upper crust, beautiful people, Brit nobs: The economic collapse had barely touched the wealthy lite. --adj. 2 elite, aristocratic, elect, upper-class, privileged, blue-blooded, noble, exclusive, choice, best, top: She socializes with rather an lite group of people.
eloquent adj. 1 expressive, articulate, silver-tongued, fluent, well-spoken, effective, persuasive, convincing, cogent, trenchant, incisive, graphic, vivid, striking, facile, smooth, glib, oratorical, rhetorical: He was an eloquent speaker. He rose and gave an eloquent speech. 2 suggestive, meaningful, pregnant: His eyebrow was raised in eloquent scepticism.
elude v. 1 evade, escape, avoid, dodge, slip away from, Colloq duck, give the slip, shake off: The suspect has eluded the police for a year. 2 evade, escape; baffle, puzzle, confuse, bewilder, confound; frustrate, stump, thwart: The point of your argument eludes me.
emaciated adj. emaciate, atrophied, shrivelled, wizened, shrunken, haggard, gaunt, drawn, pinched, bony, skeletal, cadaverous, withered, wasted, consumptive, phthisic, anorexic or anorectic, wasting (away), scrawny, skinny, thin, lean, spare, undernourished, underfed, starved, half-starved: The inmates of the camp were so emaciated they could scarcely stand.
emancipate v. release, set free, liberate, enfranchise, manumit, loose, let loose, let go, set free, disenthral, unfetter, unchain, unshackle; deliver: Britain emancipated the slaves almost 50 years before Lincoln's Emancipation Proclamation.
embark v. 1 board, go aboard; entrain; emplane or enplane: We embarked and the ship sailed. 2 Often, embark on. commence, begin, enter (upon), initiate, launch, start, go into, set about, take up or on, engage in, assume, tackle: He will embark on the new enterprise next month.
embarrassed adj. 1 ashamed, shamefaced, blushing, disconcerted, discomfited, chagrined, abashed, shamed, mortified, humiliated, discountenanced, discomposed, flustered, distressed, red-faced, uncomfortable, self-conscious, sheepish, red in the face; humbled, disgraced: She was extremely embarrassed by all the attention. 2 in debt, in the red, straitened, insolvent, Colloq short, hard up, broke, Brit skint: I'm financially embarrassed now but I'll pay you later.
embarrassment n. 1 bashfulness, awkwardness, clumsiness, discomposure, abashment, uneasiness, discomfort, self-consciousness, mortification, chagrin: My embarrassment made me blush. 2 difficulty, mess, predicament, dilemma, problem, trouble, Colloq hot water, pickle, fix, scrape, bind: Finding them together presented me with a real embarrassment. 3 excess, superfluity, superabundance, over-abundance, embarras de richesse, embarras de choix, oversupply, surplus, profusion: An embarrassment of options was open to me.
embellishment n. 1 decoration, ornamentation, ornament, elaboration, adornment, embroidery: The basic design, which is shoddy, is unimproved by embellishment. Good pasta needs minimal embellishment. 2 exaggeration, enhancement, tinsel, garnish, gilding, frill: All the embellishments make her story totally unbelievable.
embezzle v. misappropriate, peculate, misapply, misuse, steal, make off or away with, filch, pilfer, purloin, Law defalcate; Colloq have one's hand in the till: The treasurer had embezzled half a million from the company.
embittered adj. bitter, resentful, sour, soured, caustic, acrimonious, acid, envenomed; angry, choleric, rancorous: His conviction for fraud left him an embittered man.
emblematic adj. emblematical, symbolic(al), representative, representational: The white dove is emblematic of peace.
embody v. 1 concretize, realize, manifest, express, personify, materialize, reify, actualize, externalize, incarnate: Her feminist convictions are embodied in her lifestyle. 2 exemplify, typify, represent, symbolize, stand for: Note how this painting embodies Longchamp's unique notions of form. 3 consolidate, collect, unite, unify, incorporate, include, integrate, combine, concentrate, systematize, organize, comprise, codify, epitomize, synthesize: The teachings of the sect are embodied in their scriptures.
emerge v. 1 appear, come out, come forth, come up, rise; arise, surface, come into view or notice, come to light, be revealed, crop up, turn out, develop, become known, become apparent, transpire, happen, evolve: It emerged that she had bought a pistol that morning. 2 issue, emanate, come forth, proceed: The train emerged from the tunnel.
emergency n. crisis, exigency, danger, predicament, difficulty, pinch: In an emergency, put on lifebelts.
emigrate v. migrate, move, relocate, resettle; leave, quit, depart, forsake: Her parents emigrated from Turkey and settled in Scotland.
eminently adv. very, exceedingly, extremely, exceptionally, remarkably, singularly, notably, signally: This man is eminently well suited for his job.
emotion n. feeling, passion, sentiment, sensation: They say there is a fine line between the emotions of love and hate.
emphasis n. importance, stress, significance, prominence, attention, weight, gravity, force, moment, pre-eminence, priority, underscoring, underlining, Technical paralipsis: They place too much emphasis on the social aspects of school.
emphatic adj. firm, uncompromising, determined, decided, resolute, dogged; earnest, definite, unequivocal, unambiguous, distinct, dogmatic, categorical, peremptory, explicit, incisive, insistent, affirmative, positive, sure, certain, unmistakable or unmistakeable, specific, definitive, direct; forceful, vigorous, energetic, assertive, intense; express, pronounced, strong: She was emphatic about leaving then and there.
employ v. 1 hire, engage, enlist, recruit, enrol, sign (up), take on, retain, commission: I have employed a solicitor to look after my affairs while I am away. The company employed 120 engineers. 2 use, make use of, utilize, apply: We plan to employ the most modern equipment. 3 occupy, take (up), engage, involve: He is employed with his stamp collection.
employer n. 1 proprietor, owner, patron, manager, director, chief, head, Colloq boss, Brit gaffer, governor, Eye dialect guv'nor, guv: My employer comes in late every day. 2 company, firm, corporation, business, establishment, organization, Colloq outfit: She took her employer to court for unfair dismissal.
emptiness n. 1 voidness, hollowness, vacantness, vacancy, vacuity, blankness, bareness, barrenness, desolation, desertedness, vacuum, void: He was again alone in the vast emptiness of space. After she left, I felt a terrible emptiness. 2 senselessness, meaninglessness, pointlessness, aimlessness, purposelessness, futility, uselessness, worthlessness, hollowness: The emptiness of the candidate's words was apparent to all. 3 vacuity, vacuousness, vacantness, blankness, expressionlessness, emotionlessness: The emptiness of her facial expression told me that she hadn't understood a word.
enable v. 1 qualify, authorize, entitle, permit, allow, sanction, approve, empower, license,commission, entrust, depute, delegate, assign, charter, franchise: An act was passed to enable them to build the railway. 2 capacitate, facilitate, expedite, help, aid, assist: The grant enabled me to continue my studies. 3 permit, allow, approve, assent to, go along with, agree to, give the go-ahead or green light, Colloq OK or okay: Her press pass enables her to get through police lines.
enchant v. 1 bewitch, cast a spell on, ensorcell or ensorcel, spellbind, hypnotize, mesmerize, voodoo, Brit magic, US hex, Colloq hoodoo: Circe enchanted Ulysses' men and turned them into swine. 2 charm, fascinate, beguile, captivate, enthral, enrapture, attract, allure, delight, entrance: With her sultry looks she has enchanted the most cynical of men.
enchanting adj. beguiling, bewitching, entrancing, spellbinding, charming, fascinating, captivating, intriguing, enthralling, alluring, delightful, hypnotic, attractive, appealing, winsome, ravishing, seductive: Caesar found Cleopatra utterly enchanting.
encircle v. surround, gird, circle, enclose, ring, encompass, compass, confine, hem or hold in; wreathe: When the horde encircled the castle we thought we were doomed.
enclosure n. 1 fold, pen, cote, run, sty, yard, farmyard, barnyard, courtyard, quadrangle or quad, square, compound, Brit close, US and Canadian corral: We had trouble keeping the dogs in the enclosure. 2 fence, wall, rail, railing, barrier, hedge, barricade, boundary: The buildings serve as an enclosure.
encourage v. 1 hearten, embolden, reassure, buoy (up), stimulate, animate, support, inspirit, inspire, cheer (up), urge or spur on or onward(s), incite, Colloq egg on, pep up: She encouraged him in his study of medicine. 2 promote, advance, aid, support, help, assist, abet, foster, forward, boost, Colloq give a shot in the arm: The continued success of the team encouraged attendance at the games.
encroach v. Often, encroach on or upon. intrude, trespass, infringe, invade, make inroads: When you mention arctophily, you're encroaching on my territory.
encumbrance n. weight, burden, onus, cross (to bear), albatross, millstone, handicap,impediment, hindrance, obstacle, obstruction, liability, disadvantage, drag: The children were regarded merely as an encumbrance.
end n. 1 extremity, extreme, extent, bound, boundary, tip, limit, terminus: That fence marks the southern end of the property. At the end of the garden was a large shed. 2 close, termination, conclusion, cessation, expiration, finish, completion, finale, ending, wind-up; denouement or dnouement: At the end of the film, the lights came on. 3 aim, purpose, intention, intent, objective, object,goal, point, reason, raison d'tre, destination, motive, motivation, aspiration: To what end does she persist so vehemently? 4 consequence, result, outcome, effect, upshot: The end of the affair was that he had to leave town. 5 destruction, death, ruin, extermination, annihilation, death, termination, conclusion: That would spell the end to all life on earth. 6 at a loose end or US and Canadian at loose ends. unsettled, unoccupied, unemployed, uncommitted, undecided, indecisive, ambivalent, vacillating, purposeless, aimless, adrift, drifting,betwixt and between, neither here nor there: My wife has gone off to visit her mother and I'm at a loose end. 7 on end. a upright, erect, standing: He can balance a ruler on end. b continuously, uninterruptedly, unceasingly, incessantly, consecutively: It rained for days on end. 8 the end. a the worst, the last straw, the final blow, Colloq the limit, too much: Brian's winning first prize is the absolute end. b the best, the greatest: That disc by The What is the living end. --v. 9 terminate, conclude, bring to an end, stop, halt, cease, wind up ordown, settle, put an end to, discontinue, break off, cut off, close, finish, culminate, end up, Brit put paid to; die (out), expire, climax, peter out, vanish: We have ended our relationship. The book ends with her returning to him. The year ends on December 31st. 10 kill, put to death, annihilate, exterminate, terminate, extinguish; destroy, ruin: He ended his life last night with a bullet. 11 surpass, outdo, outclass, outshine, outstrip, supersede: It is a disaster film to end all disaster films.
endangered adj. imperilled, threatened, near extinction: Every effort must be made to protect endangered species.
endeavour v. 1 try, attempt, strive, make an effort, do one's best, struggle, exert oneself, undertake; aim, aspire; Colloq take a stab at, have a go or crack or whack or shot at: For years he's endeavoured to see her. --n. 2 effort, pains, attempt, try, striving, struggle, venture, enterprise, Colloq stab, crack, whack, shot: Her endeavours to be published have come to naught.
endorse v. 1 indorse, approve, sanction, authorize, advocate, support, back, subscribe to, sustain, confirm, countenance, put one's stamp or seal (of approval) on, set one's seal (of approval) to, give (something) one's imprimatur, Colloq OK, okay: The council endorsed our application for planning permission. 2 indorse, countersign: Endorse the cheque to cash it.
endowment n. 1 grant, (financial) aid, subsidy, subvention, allowance, allotment, contribution, donation, gift, present, award; bequest, inheritance, dowry: The endowment was enough to support me for a year. 2 gift, presentation, bestowal, award, awarding, settlement: The endowment of the grant was approved by the college. 3 endowments. qualities, talents, gifts, abilities, aptitudes, capabilities, capacities, qualifications, strengths; attributes, properties, characteristics: She is a woman of considerable endowments.
endure v. 1 last, persist, stay, remain, abide, prevail, survive, continue, hold, live (on), Colloq go the distance: Her fame as a poet will endure. 2 stand, abide, tolerate, face, survive, withstand, bear, weather, take (it), suffer, stomach, undergo, hold out (against), Colloq hang in (there), stick or sweat (it or something) out: He endured the pressure of his job as long as he could. 3 suffer, undergo, bear, face, stand, put up with, stomach, take: Consider the tyranny that Europe endured under Hitler.
enemy n. foe, antagonist, adversary, opponent, rival, competitor, contestant, contender; the opposition, the other side: His enemies were running a smear campaign against him.
energize v. enliven, liven up, stimulate, animate, invigorate, activate, actuate, move, motivate, galvanize, electrify, inspire, inspirit, pep up, waken, rouse, stir, arouse, excite, egg on, urge: Max's enthusiasm energized the whole of the research team.
enervate v. weaken, tire, strain, enfeeble, debilitate, fatigue, exhaust, drain, sap, wear out, devitalize, break, defeat: I have always found the tropics quite enervating.
engage v. 1 employ, hire, enrol or US also enroll, enlist, retain, sign (up), contract with or for, indenture; rent, book, reserve, secure, bespeak: She was engaged on a part-time basis. We engaged rooms for the night. 2 occupy, engross, busy, absorb, involve, tie up, preoccupy, employ: This task will engage all available resources until the end of next month. 3 pledge, undertake, bargain, agree, covenant, promise, guarantee, contract: I engaged to complete the work by Tuesday. 4 attract, hold, capture, catch, draw: The museum has many exhibits that will engage the interest of children. 5 join (in) combat or battle with, meet, encounter, fight, combat, attack, battle, clash with, grapple with: The enemy was engaged at dawn. 6 engage in. participate (in), partake in, take part (in), enter (into), undertake, embark on: She engages in many out-of-school activities.
engagement n. 1 appointment, meeting, date, rendezvous, arrangement, commitment: I'm sorry, I have a previous engagement. 2 betrothal: Their engagement was announced in all the papers. 3 agreement, bargain, obligation, promise, pledge, covenant, contract: The company undertook an engagement to provide the steel. 4 job, position, post, commission, booking; employment, work; Colloq spot, Slang (of a musician) gig: He has an engagement with the newspaper. 5 fight, battle, conflict, encounter, combat: The naval engagement lasted three days and nights.
engine n. motor, machine, mechanism, appliance, apparatus; locomotive: The invention of the internal combustion engine revolutionized modern transport.
engrave v. 1 cut, carve, chisel, inscribe; etch: The ring was a plain gold band, engraved with daisies. 2 impress, stamp, set, lodge, fix, embed, imprint, ingrain: The horror of that night was forever engraved in his mind.
enhance v. improve, better, augment, boost, raise, elevate, lift, heighten, exalt, enlarge, swell, magnify, increase, add to, amplify, intensify, enrich, embellish, complement, reinforce, strengthen: His public image was greatly enhanced by his support of charities.
enjoy v. 1 delight in, appreciate, like, take or derive pleasure or satisfaction in or from, relish (in), fancy, take to, Slang dig, get a kick or lift or charge out of, get high on, get off on: Bernard really enjoys Wagner. 2 benefit or profit from, take advantage of, use, utilize, make use of, use to advantage, have, possess: He cannot be charged because he enjoys diplomatic immunity. 3 enjoy oneself. have a good time, make merry, Colloq have a ball or the time of one's life: I enjoyed myself at your party.
enlarge v. 1 increase, expand, magnify, amplify, extend, swell, dilate, spread, wax, widen, broaden, lengthen, elongate, stretch, distend; add to, supplement, augment; inflate; Colloq blow up: The government will enlarge the area devoted to public parks. Enlarge the photographs and details appear. 2 enlarge on or upon. expand on, expatiate on, amplify, expound; detail, elaborate (on): The speaker was asked to enlarge on her plans for building new hospitals.
enlightened adj. well-informed, informed, educated, aware, knowledgeable, literate, rational, reasonable, sensible, common-sense, commonsensical, broad-minded, open-minded, liberal; cultivated, civilized, sophisticated, Colloq in the know: In a democracy, the press serves an enlightened public.
enliven v. 1 invigorate, inspirit, animate, pep up, stimulate, energize, vivify, vitalize, quicken, exhilarate, arouse, rouse, awaken, wake up, spark (off), kindle, enkindle, fire (up), inspire: Enlivened by the coach's talk, we were determined to win. 2 brighten, cheer (up), buoy (up), gladden, uplift: The room was considerably enlivened by the new curtains.
enormous adj. huge, immense, gigantic, elephantine, gargantuan, mammoth, titanic, colossal, tremendous, vast, massive, stupendous, Brobdingnagian, gross, monstrous, prodigious: An enormous dragon blocked their way out of the cave.
enough adj. 1 sufficient, adequate, ample: There isn't enough food to go round. --n. 2 sufficiency, adequacy, ample supply, plenty: I have enough for myself. --adv. 3 sufficiently, adequately, reasonably, satisfactorily, tolerably, passably: Your word is good enough for me.
enrage v. anger, infuriate, madden, incense, provoke, inflame, make (someone's) blood boil, Colloq get (someone's) back or Irish or hackles or dander up, make (someone) see red, wave a red flag before (someone), make (someone's) blood boil, US burn (someone) up, Slang US tick (someone) off, Taboo piss (someone) off, Brit put (someone's) monkey up, US tee (someone) off: Lord Thimble was enraged at being made to wait his turn.
enrich v. 1 endow, enhance, improve, upgrade, better, ameliorate, refine, add to: His novels have enriched our literature. 2 ornament, adorn, decorate, embellish; beautify, grace: Before us rose a lofty dome enriched with precious stones.
ensemble n. 1 outfit, costume, clothing, clothes, attire, apparel, garb, garments, coordinates, Colloq get-up: A black hat, gloves, and shoes completed the ensemble. 2 band, combination, orchestra, group; chorus, choir; Colloq combo: A new chamber music ensemble is performing tonight at the town hall. 3 assemblage, composite, aggregate, collection, set, whole, entirety, totality; agglomeration, conglomeration: A strange ensemble of objects was on display.
ensure v. 1 insure, assure, make sure or certain, confirm, certify, guarantee; secure, effect: He must ensure that there is no leak. 2 insure, protect, make safe, safeguard, guard, secure: The captain is responsible for ensuring the safety of the passengers.
entangle v. 1 tangle, ensnarl, snarl, enmesh, catch (up), entrap, snag, foul, implicate, knot (up), twist; impede; involve, embroil: The propeller became entangled in the seaweed so that the boat couldn't move. 2 confuse, mix (up), twist, snarl, ensnarl, ensnare, hamper, complicate, confound, bewilder, perplex, embarrass: He became entangled in a web of social and business liaisons.
enterprise n. 1 undertaking, project, venture, adventure, effort, programme, plan, scheme: His latest enterprise involves establishing a chain of pizza shops. 2 boldness, daring, courage, mettle, adventurousness, audacity, enthusiasm, zeal, energy, spirit, drive, vigour, ambition, initiative, push, eagerness, determination, resolve, purposefulness, purpose; aggressiveness; Colloq get-up-and-go, zip, pep, gumption, guts, US starch: It takes a lot of enterprise to start your own business. 3 business, operation, firm, company, concern, establishment: We began this enterprise on a shoestring.
entertain v. 1 amuse, divert; delight, please; occupy: While we waited the boy entertained us with his juggling. 2 receive, accommodate, treat, be host (to), cater (for or to); have or see people or guests or visitors or company; Colloq host: We entertain on Tuesdays only. 3 contemplate, consider, have, hold, harbour, foster, tolerate, allow, maintain, sustain, support: They felt that they could not entertain the idea of their daughter marrying the gardener's son.
entertainment n. 1 amusement, diversion, distraction, pastime, recreation, sport, play, fun, pleasure, enjoyment, relaxation, relief: What do you do for entertainment? 2 performance, presentation, diversion, amusement, divertissement, exhibition, pageant, spectacle, show, production, spectacular, extravaganza: They put on a lavish entertainment for the queen.
enthusiasm n. 1 eagerness, keenness, earnestness, fervour, avidity, zeal, excitement, passion, ardour, interest, relish, devotion, devotedness, gusto, exuberance, zest; fanaticism, mania, rage: No one matches her enthusiasm for grand opera. 2 rage, passion, craze; hobby, interest, pastime, diversion, amusement; Colloq fad: His current enthusiasm is acid rock.
enthusiastic adj. eager, keen, fervent, fervid, hearty, ardent, avid, energetic, vigorous, devoted, earnest, passionate, spirited, exuberant, zealous, fanatic(al), unqualified, unstinting, irrepressible: He's an enthusiastic supporter of the prime minister's policies.
enticement n. 1 temptation, allurement, beguilement, seduction, cajolery, wheedling, blandishment, coaxing, persuasion: Do you approve of the system of enticement used to get you to buy time-share holidays? 2 lure, bait, decoy, trap, inducement, attraction, temptation, Colloq come-on, soft soap: Among the enticements offered was a free weekend in Paris.
entirely adv. 1 completely, wholly, altogether, fully, totally, utterly, unreservedly, unqualifiedly, unexceptionally, in every respect, in all respects, thoroughly, to a T, in toto, exhaustively, all out, from head to toe or foot, (right) down to the ground, from A to Z, lock, stock and barrel, root and branch, without exception or reservation: She was entirely satisfied. I agree with that entirely. 2 solely, exclusively, only, unambiguously, unequivocally; positively, definitely, clearly: It was entirely my fault.
entitle v. 1 allow, permit, qualify, make eligible, authorize, fit; enfranchise, license, empower: This document entitles her to half of the estate. 2 name, title, call, label, nickname, dub, designate, term; christen, baptize: His first novel was entitled Out of the Depths .
entrance n. 1 (right of) entry, access, admission, admittance, entre, introduction: You need security clearance to gain entrance. 2 entry, entry-way, access, door, gate, passage, way (in); ingress: The entrance is locked after midnight. 3 arrival, appearance; coming, entry, coming or going in: Her entrances were accompanied by cheers. He opposed our entrance into the war. 4 beginning, start, commencement: Today marks his entrance into his new duties.
entrenched adj. rooted, deep-rooted, embedded, fixed, (firmly) planted, established, set, deep-seated, unshakeable, ineradicable, ingrained: We were unable to combat their entrenched opposition to the proposals.
entry n. 1 access, entrance, entre, admittance, admission: The burglar gained entry through the skylight. 2 access, entrance, entry-way, door, inlet, passage, way in: Both entries were blocked. 3 entrance, arrival, coming or going in: His entry was met with jeers. 4 record, item, memorandum, note, account, listing; registration; Colloq memo: There is no entry in his diary for the 15th of April. 5 competitor, contestant, player, entrant, participant, candidate; rival, adversary, opponent: Dennis was a late entry in the marathon.
enumerate v. 1 list, name, itemize, specify, detail, spell out, catalogue, tick off, take stock of, cite, quote, recite, recount, relate, narrate , US check off: I shall enumerate the reasons why you may not go. 2 count, calculate, compute, reckon, tally, add, number: The researcher could enumerate only seven different species.
envelop v. 1 wrap, enclose, enfold, enwrap, cover, engulf, swathe, shroud, enshroud, swaddle: The body was enveloped in a white robe. 2 shroud, enshroud, cover, conceal, hide, screen, shield, obscure, veil, cloak: The motive for the murder was enveloped in a mass of misleading clues.
envious adj. jealous, covetous, resentful, begrudging, green-eyed, green (with envy), desirous: He is envious of his wife because she has a better job.
environmentalist n. ecologist, conservationist, naturalist, preservationist, nature-lover, green or Green: We have environmentalists to thank for clean-air laws.
envision v. envisage, visualize, imagine, conceive of, foresee, anticipate, predict, forecast, prophesy: I envision great success for you.
envy n. 1 jealousy, enviousness, resentment: She was consumed with envy of anyone who had more money than she did. 2 covetousness, desire, longing: Success excites my envy. --v. 3 covet, begrudge, resent: He envies his brother and his new car.
epicurean adj. 1 sensual, sybaritic, luxurious, voluptuous, carnal, self-indulgent, pleasure-seeking, pleasure-oriented, hedonistic, gluttonous, intemperate, overindulgent, crapulent or crapulous, swinish, porcine, piggish, immoderate, orgiastic, libidinous, wild, unrestrained, unconfined, dissolute, dissipated, Bacchanalian, Saturnalian: The king's epicurean lifestyle contrasted with that of his starving subjects. 2 Lucullan, gourmet: That was truly an epicurean repast. --n. 3 epicure: It was a meal that would have won the approval of the greatest epicureans.
epigram n. 1 witticism, bon mot, quip, mot, turn of phrase, jeu d'esprit, Atticism; pun, double entendre, jeu de mots, play on words, equivoque; paronomasia: His epigram characterizing Eskimos as 'God's frozen people' was widely quoted. 2 proverb, aphorism, maxim, saw, saying, adage, apophthegm or apothegm: 'Nothing succeeds like success' is his favourite epigram.
episode n. 1 event, incident, occurrence, happening, experience, adventure, affair, matter: Please do not remind me of the episode with the chicken. 2 chapter, scene, instalment, part: Don't miss tonight's episode of your favourite soap opera.
equable adj. 1 even-tempered, easygoing, serene, calm, placid, composed, cool, imperturbable, collected, unruffled, tranquil, peaceful, level-headed, Colloq unflappable: With his equable temperament, Edgar is the man for the job. 2 uniform, unvarying, unvaried, consistent, stable, steady, regular, even, unchanging, invariable, constant: We moved to the Caribbean because of its equable climate.
equality n. 1 parity, sameness, identity, coequality, uniformity: The equality of the two bids was very suspicious. 2 similarity, likeness, resemblance, equivalence, correspondence, conformity, congruence, similitude, analogy, comparability, comparison, coincidence: The equality between their performances is surprising. 3 impartiality, fairness, justice; egalitarianism: Surely we all deserve equality of treatment under the law.
equip v. furnish, provide, supply, stock, outfit, fit (out or up), rig (out or up), accoutre, array, attire, dress, deck (out), caparison, clothe, Chiefly Brit kit out or up: We can equip you with any scuba gear you may require.
equitable adj. fair, even-handed, just, impartial, objective, unbiased, unprejudiced, square, fair-minded, open-minded, disinterested, dispassionate, neutral, tolerant, unbigoted, reasonable, judicious, ethical, principled, moral, proper, right-minded, Colloq fair and square: Suspects have the right to equitable treatment.
equivalent adj. 1 tantamount, commensurate, alike, similar, close, comparable, corresponding, interchangeable, equal, synonymous, of a piece or a kind: He didn't really believe that women's rights should be equivalent to men's. --n. 2 match, equal, peer, counterpart, twin: The garage could not supply the same part but they offered an equivalent.
equivocate v. evade, mislead, hedge, deceive, quibble, dodge, weasel out (of), double-talk, fence, sidestep, skirt, avoid, tergiversate, prevaricate, Colloq waffle, beat about the bush, pussyfoot: I wish she'd confirm or deny it and stop equivocating.
erase v. 1 expunge, rub or scratch or blot or wipe out, delete, cancel, efface, scratch, cross or strike out or off, obliterate: The scribe erased one line and substituted another. 2 abolish, destroy, obliterate, remove, eliminate, (get) rid of, eradicate, efface: We erased every trace of evidence that we had been there.
erode v. wear (down or away), eat away, grind down, abrade, gnaw away (at), consume, corrode, wash away; deteriorate, destroy, deplete, reduce, diminish: Water has eroded the rock. Their continued lying has eroded my confidence in their honesty.
erotic adj. 1 sensual, stimulating, suggestive, titillating, risqu, bawdy, ribald, seductive, voluptuous, lustful, Colloq sexy: Some insist that there is a difference between pornographic and erotic literature. 2 amatory, venereal, amorous, anacreontic: Many classical poets wrote erotic verse. 3 erogenous, naughty, carnal, arousing, rousing, aphrodisiac, libidinous, lubricious or lubricous, prurient, lascivious, lewd, concupiscent, salacious, obscene, pornographic, dirty, filthy, nasty, Colloq blue: He has a collection of photos that he calls erotic art.
errand n. 1 trip, journey: She was on an errand of mercy. 2 mission, charge, assignment, commission, task, duty: Francis is out running some errands for me.
erroneous adj. wrong, mistaken, incorrect, inaccurate, inexact, imprecise, amiss, awry, false, faulty, misleading, flawed, botched, bungled, unsound, invalid, untrue, fallacious, spurious, counterfeit, Colloq off the mark, off course, Brit off beam, US off the beam: He gives the erroneous impression of being intelligent. 'Seperate' is an erroneous spelling of 'separate'.
erupt v. 1 eject, discharge, expel, emit, burst forth or out, blow up, explode, spew forth or out, break out, spout, vomit (up or forth), throw up or off, spit out or up, belch (forth), gush: The volcano erupted ash and lava. 2 appear, come out, break out: A boil erupted on his chin.
escape v. 1 get away, break out or free, bolt, flee, fly, run away or off, elope, decamp, abscond, steal or slip off or away, take to one's heels, take French leave, disappear, vanish, Brit levant, Colloq take off, clear out, cut and run, duck out, make oneself scarce, do a disappearing act, Brit do a moonlight flit, US vamoose, hightail it, skedaddle, US and Canadian skip (town), fly the coop, cut out; Slang vamoose, Brit do a bunk, bugger off, mizzle off, US and Canadian scram, blow, lam out, take it on the lam, take a (run-out) powder, Chiefly Australian shoot through: They escaped when I wasn't looking. 2 evade, elude, avoid, dodge: They escaped detection for years by hiding in a deserted monastery. 3 drain, leak, issue, seep, discharge, emanate: Steam was escaping through a hole. 4 elude, evade, baffle, stump, mystify, puzzle, be forgotten by, be beyond (someone): How the thing started escapes me for the moment. --n. 5 flight, getaway, departure, decampment, bolt, jailbreak, prison-break, Colloq break, break-out: The escape was planned for midnight. 6 distraction, relief, diversion, recreation: He watches westerns as an escape. 7 leakage, leaking, seepage, seeping, drainage, draining, leak, discharge, outpouring, outflow, effluence, efflux, effluxion: An escape of radioactive waste from the nuclear power station had been reported earlier. escort n. 1 guard, convoy, bodyguard, protection, guardian, protector, chaperon, cortege or cortge, retinue, entourage, safe conduct, usher, companion: The king rode in with his armed escort. 2 guide, attendant, conductor, leader, cicerone: The curator acted as our escort through the museum. 3 companion; date, boyfriend, beau: Donald is Thea's escort to the ball. --v. 4 accompany, shepherd, squire, usher, conduct, guide, attend: Would you please escort Denise in to dinner? 5 guard, convoy, protect, watch over: The oil tankers were escorted by destroyers.
essay n. 1 article, composition, paper, theme, piece; thesis, dissertation, disquisition, tract: Her essay is on the life cycle of the flea. 2 attempt, effort, try, endeavour, venture; Colloq shot, go: This is his first essay into the financial world. --v. 3 try, attempt, endeavour, strive, make an effort, undertake, venture, tackle, test, go about, Colloq take a crack or whack or stab at, Slang have a go at, give (it or something) a shot, have a go or bash (at): Let him essay to do better.
essential adj. 1 indispensable, necessary, requisite, required, important, imperative, vital, material, quintessential: A strong defence is essential to peace. 2 fundamental, basic, intrinsic, elemental, elementary, principal, primary, key, main, leading, chief: Yeast or baking powder is an essential ingredient of bread.
establishment n. 1 foundation, founding, formation, organization, construction, creation, origin, origination, institution, inauguration, setting up: We look forward to the establishment of a democratic government. 2 business, concern, firm, company, enterprise, institution, organization; office; shop, store, market: He works for a retail establishment. 3 the Establishment. the system, the government, the authorities, the administration, the power structure, the ruling class, the (established) order, the conservatives,the powers that be; the Church: The press must not be under the control of the Establishment.
esteem v. 1 respect, value, treasure, prize, cherish, hold dear, appreciate, admire, look up to, regard highly, venerate, revere, reverence, honour, defer to; like, love, adore: The novels of Virginia Woolf were greatly esteemed by a small intellectual group. 2 consider, judge, deem, view, regard, hold, estimate, account, believe, think, rate, rank, reckon, evaluate: The Duke was esteemed throughout Europe as 'the perfect knight'. --n. 3 estimation, (high) regard, respect, (high) opinion, favour, admiration, appreciation, approval, approbation: He holds her talents in very high esteem. My esteem for your father's accomplishments is undiminished.
estimate v. 1 approximate, gauge, determine, judge, guess; assess, appraise, value, evaluate, reckon, calculate, work out, Colloq guestimate or guesstimate: Experts estimated the cost of restoration at 10,000. 2 consider, think, believe, guess, conjecture, judge: I estimate our chances of success as very low. --n. 3 approximation, gauge, guess, conjecture, assessment, appraisal, evaluation, reckoning, calculation, Colloq guestimate or guesstimate: What is your estimate of the company's value? 4 estimation, belief, opinion, judgement, thinking, feeling, sentiment, sense, (point of) view, viewpoint: My estimate of his abilities is that he is not the man for the job.
estranged adj. alienated, divided, separated, withdrawn, disaffected, driven apart, dissociated, disassociated: Iain Carstairs has had a lot of trouble with his estranged wife.
eternal adj. 1 everlasting, timeless, infinite, endless, immortal, limitless: They pledged eternal love for one another. 2 unending, endless, ceaseless, unceasing, incessant, perpetual, constant, continuous, interminable, uninterrupted, non-stop, unremitting, persistent, relentless; continual, recurrent: I'm sick and tired of my neighbours' eternal arguing. 3 unchanged, unchanging, immutable, invariable, unvarying, unalterable, permanent, fixed, constant, everlasting, enduring, lasting, undiminished, unfaltering, unwavering: To the north there was only the eternal silence of the greatest desolation.
ethical adj. moral, upright, righteous, right, just, principled, correct, honest, proper, open, decent, fair, good, virtuous, straightforward, high-minded, noble: It wasn't ethical of him to disclose details of the report.
eulogize v. praise, extol, laud, applaud, compliment, sound or sing the praises of, acclaim; appreciate, honour; flatter: Kirk was eulogized for his contribution to space travel.
euphemism n. amelioration, mollification, mitigation, cushioning, Technical paradiastole: Euphemism is saying 'not too good' when you mean 'bad' or 'awful'.
evade v. 1 avoid, elude, dodge, sidestep, escape (from); get away (from), get out of, duck, circumvent, shirk, Colloq chiefly US and Canadian weasel out (of): The prisoner evaded capture. Don't evade your responsibilities. 2 quibble, equivocate, tergiversate, manoeuvre, hedge, shuffle, fudge, fence, parry, Colloq waffle, Slang cop out: The witness continued to evade the barrister's questions.
evaluation n. 1 appraisal, valuation, assessment: The insurance company refused to accept a higher evaluation on my house. 2 estimate, estimation, approximation, rating, opinion, ranking, judgement, reckoning, figuring, calculation, computation, determination: The committee meets annually to discuss the evaluation of each employee's contribution.
evaporation n. 1 vaporization, drying (up or out), dehydration, desiccation, exsiccation, parching, searing: Clouds are formed by the evaporation of terrestrial water. 2 disappearance, dispersion, dispelling, dissipation, evanescence, dematerialization, dissolution, fading (away), melting (away): He was pleased to note the evaporation of all serious opposition.
evasive adj. devious, indirect, equivocating, equivocal, misleading, oblique, ambiguous, sophistical, casuistic, shifty, dissembling, cunning, tricky, deceitful, Colloq cagey, Jesuitical: When asked if he had visited her, he gave an evasive reply. She too was evasive about how she had spent the evening.
even adj. 1 smooth, flat, plane, level, regular, uniform, flush, straight, true: Sand the edges till they are even. 2 Sometimes, even with. level or uniform (with), coextensive (with), flush (with), parallel (with or to): Make sure that the lines at the bottom of the columns are even. Is that board even with the others? 3 steady, regular, consistent, constant, uniform, unvaried, unvarying, methodical, unchanging, set, equable, stable, measured, metrical, rhythmical, orderly, ordered, monotonous, unbroken, uninterrupted: We walked along at an even pace. 4 even-tempered, calm, equable, composed, placid, serene, peaceful, cool, tranquil, unruffled, imperturbable, undisturbed, impassive, steady, temperate, equanimous, self-possessed, sober, staid, sedate, sober-sided: People of even disposition are unexcited, unexcitable, and unexciting. 5 balanced, equal, the same, identical, coequal, level, drawn, on a par, tied, neck and neck; equivalent, Colloq fifty-fifty, Brit level pegging, US even Steven: At half-time the scores were even. I have an even chance of getting the job. 6 square, quits, equal: If I pay for this round, we'll be even. 7 fair (and square), square, impartial, disinterested, neutral, just, even-handed, equitable, straightforward, on the level, honest, upright, unbiased, unprejudiced: See that you make an even distribution of the food parcels. 8 exact, precise, round, rounded off or out or up or down: The bill came to an even fifty pounds. 9 get even (with). repay, revenge oneself (on), even or settle accounts or the score (with), requite, reciprocate, retaliate, be revenged: I'll get even with her for telling my mother. Whenever he feels that he's been insulted, he wants to get even. --adv. 10 still, yet; all the (more), indeed, (more) than ever: He is even dumber than I thought. He is in debt to everyone, even his daughter. 11 Sometimes, even with or though. notwithstanding, despite, in spite of, disregarding: Even with delays, we arrived on time. 12 even so. nevertheless, nonetheless, still, yet, notwithstanding, all the same, in spite of that, despite that: He refused to attend; even so, we sent him an invitation. --v. 13 Usually, even up or out. smooth, flatten, level, equalize; align: This road will be fine when they even out the bumps. 14 even out or up. equalize, balance (out), settle; compensate: Unfortunately, our profits and our expenses evened out.
eventful adj. busy, full, active, lively, exciting, interesting; important, significant, signal, consequential, notable, noteworthy, momentous, memorable: What with your wedding and the birth of your son, it certainly has been an eventful week.
eventuality n. circumstance, contingency, event, occurrence, happening, case; likelihood, chance, possibility, probability: We must prepare for the eventuality of war.
ever adv. 1 at all, (at) any time, at any point or period, on any occasion, in any case, by any chance: Do you ever visit London? 2 always, for ever, yet, still, even, at all times, in all cases, eternally, perpetually, endlessly, everlastingly, constantly, continuously, continually, for ever and a day, till the end of time, till the cows come home, till doomsday; all the time: He is ever the one to make us laugh. Literacy is becoming ever more important.
everyday adj. 1 daily, day-to-day, quotidian, diurnal; circadian: In our family a big breakfast was an everyday occurrence. 2 commonplace, common, ordinary, customary, regular, habitual, routine, usual, run-of-the-mill, unexceptional, accustomed, conventional, familiar: She found herself unable to cope with everyday tasks that she used to take in her stride. 3 prosaic, mundane, dull, unimaginative, unexciting, mediocre, inferior: These are very everyday paintings of little value.
everything pron. all, all things, the aggregate, the (whole or entire) lot, the total, the entirety, Colloq the whole kit and caboodle, the whole shooting match, Chiefly US and Canadian the whole shebang: Everything was destroyed in the earthquake.
evict v. oust, dislodge, turn out (of house and home), expel, eject, remove, dispossess, put out, Law disseise or disseize, Colloq toss or throw or kick or boot out, Brit turf out: The landlord evicted us for non-payment of rent.
evidence n. 1 proof, ground(s), fact(s), data, basis, support, verification, attestation, affirmation, confirmation, validation, corroboration, substantiation, documentation, certification: Have we enough evidence to convict the suspects? 2 testimony, statement, deposition, affidavit, averment, assertion: The prosecution will present its evidence tomorrow. 3 indication, sign, mark, token, manifestation, demonstration, hint, suggestion, clue, trace, smoking gun: There is evidence that there are mice in the house. --v. 4 demonstrate, show, display, manifest, signify, exhibit, reveal, denote, attest, prove, evince, testify, (bear) witness: The destruction of the forests is evidenced by the open plains.
evidently adv. 1 clearly, obviously, plainly, manifestly, palpably, apparently, patently, indubitably, undoubtedly, doubtless(ly), without a doubt, indisputably, incontestably, incontrovertibly, undeniably, unquestionably, surely, certainly, to be sure: He is evidently the culprit. 2 apparently, outwardly, seemingly, it would seem, so it seems, as far as one can see or tell, to all appearances, ostensibly: Evidently, there were two people here, not just one.
evil-minded adj. 1 dirty(-minded), smutty, obscene, depraved, lewd, lascivious, lecherous, salacious, licentious, filthy, nasty; foul-mouthed: Those anonymous phone calls were made by some evil-minded degenerate. 2 wicked, sinful, flagitious, vicious, hateful, malicious, spiteful, malevolent, evil, bad: The evil-minded old witch grabbed Hansel and Gretel.
evolution n. development, advance, growth, progress, progression, phylogeny, evolvement, developing, growing, evolving, formation, maturation, production: This book traces the evolution of the aeroplane. His treatise is on the evolution of insects.
exacting adj. demanding, rigorous, difficult, rigid, stern, hard, tough, severe, harsh, burdensome, taxing, stringent, imperative, unsparing, oppressive, tyrannical: I know of no more exacting job than that of air traffic controller.
exaggerate v. overstate, magnify, inflate, overdraw, embroider, embellish, elaborate, enlarge, stretch, romance, overemphasize, overstress, overplay, overdo, exalt, hyperbolize, paint, Colloq lay it on thick, play up, pile it on: She exaggerates when she claims to be the best actress in the world. He believes the health risks are exaggerated.
exalt v. 1 elevate, raise or lift (up or on high), upraise, uplift, upgrade, boost, promote, advance: The goalkeeper was exalted to heroic status by the fans. 2 praise, honour, extol, glorify, idolize, dignify, ennoble, revere, reverence, venerate, pay homage or tribute to, celebrate; lionize: O magnify the Lord with me, and let us exalt His name together. 3 stimulate, excite, animate, (a)rouse, fire, inspire, electrify, awaken, spur, stir (up), inspirit: Certain drugs have the effect of exalting the imagination.
examination n. 1 investigation, scrutiny, study, analysis, inspection, inquiry or enquiry, probe, search, exploration, research, survey, going-over, check-up, check(out), appraisal, assessment: Examination of the finances revealed a secret Swiss bank account. 2 testing, test, quiz, exam: There will be a written examination on Friday. 3 interrogation, inquisition, inquiry or enquiry, catechism, cross-examination, Colloq third degree, grill(ing): Examination of the prisoners is left to intelligence officers.
example n. 1 instance, case, sample, specimen, illustration: If this is an example of your work, I'm afraid we aren't interested. 2 model, prototype, standard, archetype, exemplar, pattern, benchmark, norm, criterion: You should set an example to the children. 3 warning, admonition, lesson: The judge made an example of him by giving him the maximum sentence. 4 for example. for instance, as a case in point, as an illustration or example, by way of illustration, to illustrate, eg, exempli gratia: Consider, for example, the following poem by Wordsworth.
excavate v. 1 dig (out or up), hollow or gouge (out), scoop out, burrow or cut (out): They are excavating a great hole in the centre of the site. 2 unearth, uncover, expose, clear, lay bare, dig up, disinter, bring up, exhume: A large part of Pompeii has been excavated.
exceed v. 1 surpass, top, excel, be superior to, go beyond, beat, overwhelm, better, outdistance, pass, overtake, outstrip, outrank, outrun, outdo, outpace, transcend, outshine, outreach, overshadow, eclipse: The success of the new product exceeded our expectations. 2 overstep, go beyond, overextend: His behaviour exceeded the bounds of decency.
exceedingly adv. very, extremely, especially, exceptionally, considerably, incomparably, immeasurably, extraordinarily, remarkably; excessively, greatly, hugely, enormously: She plays the violin exceedingly well. Even for a dog, that is an exceedingly ugly dog.
excellence n. superiority, merit, (high) quality, goodness, fineness, greatness, prominence, eminence, pre-eminence, distinction, value, worth, supremacy: Those who attain excellence often devote their lives to one pursuit.
except prep. 1 Sometimes except for. excepting, save, but, excluding, exclusive of, barring, bar, with the exception of, omitting, not counting, apart from, but for, other than, saving: There was no one there except us. Except for us, no one came. --conj. 2 except that. except or but (for the fact) that, but, save that: He would have gone except that he has no car. --v. 3 exclude, omit, leave out, excuse: As usual, the wealthy were excepted from the tax increase.
exceptionable adj. objectionable, disputable, questionable, criticizable, unacceptable, unsatisfactory: We found nothing exceptionable about the service.
excerpt n. 1 extract, selection, quotation, citation, passage, pericope: The speaker read excerpts from well-known writers. --v. 2 extract, select, quote, cite, cull (out), pick (out), take: Parts of this book were excerpted from his earlier writings.
excessive adj. 1 immoderate, inordinate, disproportionate, extravagant, exorbitant, superfluous, excess, undue, enormous, extreme, unreasonable, unwarranted, unjustifiable, outrageous, unconscionable: This job is making excessive demands on my time. 2 overdone, fulsome, cloying, nauseating, disgusting: I was sickened by her excessive sweetness.
excitable adj. volatile, jumpy, apprehensive, nervous, restive, restless, fidgety, edgy, touchy, highly-strung, high-strung, mercurial, emotional, quick-tempered, testy, hot-blooded, feverish, hysterical, US on a short string: The director becomes very excitable before each performance.
excited adj. 1 (a)roused, stirred (up), stimulated, agitated, disturbed, perturbed, upset, worked up, wrought up, wound up, keyed up, overwrought, discomposed, disconcerted, discomfited, nervous, edgy, on edge, uneasy, flustered, ruffled, fidgety, frantic, frenetic, aflame, feverish, frenzied, hysterical, beside oneself, Colloq itchy, (all) hot and bothered, high, on a high, off the deep end, out of one's mind: Turner was in a very excited state by the time the police arrived. Don't get so excited just because he called you a name. 2 ardent, zealous, impassioned, passionate, eager, energized, energetic, active, brisk, animated, lively, spirited, fervid, fervent, vehement, stimulated, enthusiastic, galvanized, electrified, intoxicated, Colloq turned on: The excited children scrambled into the boat. She becomes excited listening to rock 'n' roll.
exciting adj. 1 stimulating, intoxicating, heady, thrilling, stirring, moving, inspiring, rousing, exhilarating, electrifying, galvanizing, energizing, invigorating; overwhelming, overpowering, astounding, astonishing, amazing, mind-boggling, Colloq far-out, rip-roaring, mind-blowing: Orbiting the world in the space shuttle was the most exciting experience of my life. 2 seductive, sensuous, voluptuous, ravishing, captivating, charming, tempting, enticing, alluring, provocative, titillating, Colloq sexy: Fenella is truly an exciting young woman.
exclamation n. outcry, call, cry, utterance, ejaculation, interjection, vociferation, shout, yell, bellow, Colloq holler: She gave an exclamation of surprise at seeing me there.
exclusion n. 1 lockout, shut-out, ban, bar, prohibition, interdiction, forbiddance, denial, refusal, disallowance, proscription: He would not join a club that supported the exclusion of women members. 2 elimination, rejection, omission, repudiation, exception, preclusion: We must ensure the exclusion of unqualified candidates. 3 ejection, eviction, expulsion, ouster, removal, riddance: The exclusion of rowdies and hooligans is in the club's best interests.
excruciating adj. tormenting, torturing, torturous, agonizing, painful, racking, intense, extreme, unbearable, unendurable, severe, acute, exquisite, harrowing, distressful, distressing, piercing, insufferable: She was racked with excruciating pain. excursion n. 1 trip, tour, outing, airing, expedition, voyage, cruise, journey, junket, jaunt; ramble, stroll, walk, hike, trek, drive, ride, sail: We left the city and took an excursion into the mountains. 2 detour, deviation, side-trip, diversion, digression, excursus: Forgive the excursion, but I'll return to the subject in a minute.
execute v. 1 accomplish, do, carry out or off or through, perform, discharge, dispatch or despatch, bring about or off, implement, engineer, cause, Colloq pull off, put over, Slang US swing, cut, hack (out): She executes her duties satisfactorily. 2 complete, finish, deliver; achieve, consummate, fulfil, effect, effectuate; sign, seal, validate, countersign: He executed the portrait in an hour. The contract was executed yesterday. 3 put to death, kill, put to the sword, butcher; liquidate, assassinate, murder, remove, slay, Slang bump off, rub or wipe out, snuff (out), knock off, US waste, ice: Convicted murderers are no longer executed in this country. The mob executed the rival gangleaders.
executive n. 1 chairman (of the board), director, managing director, chief executive, president, chief (executive officer), CEO, manager, head, leader, principal, administrator, official; supervisor, foreman, superintendent, overseer, boss, master, Colloq Mr Big, (chief or head) honcho, number one, kingpin, Slang top banana, big cheese, numero uno, top dog: She is an executive in the local power company. 2 administration, management, directorship, directorate, government, leadership, supervision: Five people form the executive of the society. --adj. 3 administrative, managerial, supervisory, official, governing, governmental, gubernatorial, regulatory: He works in the executive department of the government.
exemplify v. 1 illustrate, typify, represent, epitomize, instance; embody, personify: This painting exemplifies Picasso's blue period. 2 demonstrate, display, show, exhibit, model, depict: Early Mediterranean civilization is exemplified at Knossos. exempt v. 1 Often, exempt from. free or liberate or release from, excuse or relieve from, spare from, let off, absolve, except, Colloq let off the hook: The doctor exempted Becker from strenuous activity. --adj. 2 exempted, free, liberated, released, excused, relieved, spared, let off, excepted, immune, Colloq off the hook: It seems that Becker is now exempt from doing any work.
exercise v. 1 employ, use, apply, practise, bring to bear, put to use or effect; discharge, exert, wield, execute; utilize, effect: Try to exercise better judgement next time. The chairman exercises too much authority. 2 work out, limber up, warm up, train, drill: She exercises for an hour every day. 3 harass, annoy, irritate, vex, harry, distress, worry, concern, burden, try, trouble, perturb, disturb, agitate, make nervous, Colloq drive crazy, drive up the wall: We have been much exercised over the issue of acid rain. --n. 4 activity, workout, working-out, warm-up, warming up, callisthenics, aerobics, isometrics, gymnastics; training, drill, drilling: Exercise is good for the heart. 5 action, application, practice, performance, discharge, use, utilization, employment, execution, operation: We expect the exercise of your best endeavours.
exertion n. action, effort, striving, strain, work, struggle, toil, drive, push, diligence, industry, assiduity, assiduousness, sedulousness, sedulity, Colloq US stick-to-it-iveness: By considerable exertion, we finished on time. He was tired after all his exertions.
exhale v. breathe (out), blow, puff, huff, gasp, evaporate, pass off, discharge, emit, emanate, issue (forth), respire, suspire, give forth, blow off, eject, expel, exsufflate: Please exhale into this balloon. The volcano continued to exhale noxious fumes.
exhausted adj. 1 (dead) tired, fatigued, weary, wearied, worn out, enervated, debilitated, overtired, weak, weakened, prostrate, worn or fagged or played or burnt-out, spent, all in, out on one's feet, Colloq dog-tired, dead (on one's feet), wiped out, drained, knocked out, all in, done in, frazzled, Slang (dead) beat, Brit knackered, US and Canadian pooped: I must sleep: I'm exhausted. 2 empty, emptied, bare; depleted, consumed, done, gone, at an end, finished: Our supply of paper-clips is exhausted. 3 spent, worn out, depleted, impoverished, poor, infertile, barren: It is impossible to grow anything in this exhausted soil.
exhaustion n. 1 emptying, drawing out or forth, discharge, draining, evacuation, voiding, depletion, consumption, finish(ing): The exhaustion of air from the cylinder is accomplished by a powerful pump. 2 tiredness, fatigue, enervation, debilitation, weariness, lassitude: The survivors were suffering from exposure and exhaustion.
exhibit v. show, display, present, offer, expose; show off, parade, brandish, flaunt; demonstrate, reveal, betray, manifest, exemplify, evince, evidence, disclose, express: Her paintings are widely exhibited. Such behaviour exhibits poor judgement.
exhilarating adj. 1 invigorating, bracing, stimulating, vivifying, enlivening, rejuvenating, refreshing, vitalizing, fortifying, restorative, tonic: We took an exhilarating walk round the lake. 2 cheering, uplifting, gladdening, elating, inspiriting, heartening, comforting, reassuring; happy, good, delightful: We received the exhilarating news of Phoebe's complete recovery.
exist v. 1 be, continue, prevail, endure, abide; live, breathe: Some believe that the universe exists only in our imagination. 2 survive, subsist, eke out a living or an existence, stay alive, get by or along: How can the family exist only on his pension? 3 occur, happen, be found, be present, remain, persist; obtain, prevail: A two-foot gap exists between the wall and the roof. 'Status quo' refers to the circumstances that exist.
exit n. 1 way out, egress, door, gate; outlet, vent: Everyone left by the emergency exit when the alarm rang. This is the exit for the smoke. 2 departure, leave-taking, withdrawal, leaving, retreat, retirement; flight, exodus, evacuation, escape: Terribly embarrassed, they made their exit. The villain's exit from the stage was marked by catcalls. --v. 3 go (out or away), (take one's) leave, depart, take or make one's departure, retire, (beat a) retreat, bid adieu, withdraw, run, (take a) walk, walk out (on), quit, escape, take to one's heels, show a clean pair of heels, vanish, disappear, Colloq take off, skedaddle, kiss goodbye, US cut out; Slang beat it, US and Canadian take it on the lam, lam (on) out of or from, take a (run-out) powder: He exited from the party as soon as he could.
exotic adj. 1 foreign, alien, non-native, imported: She raises exotic plants. 2 strange, unfamiliar, unusual, bizarre, odd, peculiar, unique, singular, extraordinary, remarkable, out of the ordinary, different, outlandish, weird, crazy: His exotic clothes make him stand out in a crowd. 3 striptease, belly, go-go, topless, bottomless, nude: Her daughter is an exotic dancer at the new disco.
expanse n. stretch, extent, area, space, range, sweep, reach, length and breadth, spread: The vast expanses of space are yet to be explored.
expansive adj. 1 expansible or expandable or expandible, inflatable, dilatable, extensible or extendible or extendable; extending, expanding, enlarging, spreading, opening or stretching (out): Increased temperature causes the enlargement of expansive materials. 2 effusive, open, free, easy, genial, amiable, friendly, warm, affable, sociable, outgoing, communicative, outspoken, extrovert(ed) or extravert(ed), talkative, loquacious, garrulous, frank, unreserved: William became relaxed, almost expansive over the meal. 3 broad, extensive, far-reaching, wide-ranging; comprehensive, widespread, all-embracing, (all-)inclusive: We stood on the edge of an expansive desert. The company has expansive interests in Europe. expect v. 1 anticipate, look forward or ahead to, have or keep in view, await, envisage, watch or look for, wait for, contemplate, foresee, US envision: She expects to leave. He was expecting her at noon. 2 assume, presume, suppose, imagine, believe, think,trust, surmise, conjecture; foresee, US and Canadian guess: I expect you will be hungry when you return. 3 look for, want, require, wish, need, demand, reckon on or upon, hope for, calculate or count on or upon: What did you expect me to do?
expectation n. 1 anticipation, confidence, hopefulness, watchfulness, apprehension, apprehensiveness, expectancy, suspense: There was an air of expectation in the room. 2 hope, assumption, presumption, surmise, supposition, belief, conjecture, US and Canadian guess: Our expectation is that he will come on the next train. 3 demand, requirement, wish, desire, want, insistence, reliance: I think your expectations might be too optimistic. 4 prospects, outlook: He had great expectations from his rich uncle.
expedient adj. 1 suitable, appropriate, fitting, fit, befitting, proper, apropos, right, correct, meet, pertinent, applicable, practical, pragmatic, worthwhile, politic: To cross the river, a bridge would prove expedient. 2 advantageous, beneficial, advisable, desirable, recommended, useful, practical, utilitarian, prudent, wise, propitious, opportune, helpful, effective: Count on him to do what is expedient and ignore what is honest. --n. 3 device, resource, means, measure, contrivance, resort, recourse: Life jackets are a useful expedient if the boat sinks.
expedition n. 1 exploration, journey, voyage, field trip, trip, tour, excursion; enterprise, undertaking, mission, quest: She went on an expedition up the Amazon to research herbal medicines. 2 speed, promptness, celerity, alacrity, dispatch or despatch, haste, rapidity, swiftness, quickness: He was ordered to complete his chores with expedition.
expel v. 1 eject, dislodge, throw or cast out, drive or force out, evict, put or push out, remove, run (someone) off or out, displace, dispossess, show the door, suspend, dismiss, let go, Colloq fire, Brit sack, turf out: They will expel the tenant at the earliest opportunity. 2 banish, deport, exile, expatriate, outlaw, maroon; proscribe, ban, bar, debar, dismiss, exclude, blackball, drum out, cashier, discharge, oust: The leader of the opposition was expelled from the country. The committee voted to expel Horace from the club.
expendable adj. dispensable, disposable, non-essential, inessential or unessential, unnecessary, replaceable; unimportant, insignificant: In terms of military strategy, the commando unit was expendable.
expense n. 1 Often, expenses. payment, costs, outlay, outgoings, disbursement, expenditure, spending, out-of-pocket (expenses); cost, price, charge, fee, rate: Keep your expenses to a minimum. Expenses for travel and entertainment will be reimbursed by the company. 2 detriment, sacrifice, cost, loss, impairment, ruin, destruction: They continue to smoke at the expense of their health.
experience n. 1 knowledge, contact, involvement, practice, familiarity, acquaintance, exposure; participation, observation: Her book on nursing is based on personal experience. 2 incident, event, happening, affair, episode, occurrence, circumstance, adventure, encounter; trial, test, ordeal: He has lived through some harrowing experiences. 3 common sense, wisdom, sagacity, knowledge, know-how, savoir faire, savoir vivre, sophistication, skill, judgement, Slang savvy: She is a woman of experience. --v. 4 undergo, live or go through, suffer, endure, sustain, face, encounter, meet (with), feel, sense, taste, sample, be familiar with, know: Your problem is that you have never experienced genuine hunger.
experiment n. 1 test, trial, investigation, inquiry or enquiry, examination, experimentation, research, proof: Experiment has shown that the ointment cures many minor skin ailments. 2 procedure, policy: Totalitarianism seems to have failed as a political experiment. --v. 3 experiment on or with. test, try, examine, investigate, research, probe: The time has come to experiment on human subjects. Artists now experiment with many media, from canvas to computers.
expert n. 1 authority, professional, specialist, scholar, master, connoisseur, pundit, Colloq wizard, whiz, pro, ace, Brit dab hand, boffin, Slang US maven or mavin: We rely on experts to verify the age of works of art. --adj. 2 skilful, skilled, trained, knowledgeable, learned, experienced, practised, qualified, adept, proficient, accomplished, au fait, adroit, dexterous, polished, finished, masterful, masterly, first-rate, excellent, superb, wonderful, superior, champion(ship), A-one, A-1, virtuoso, Colloq top-notch, Brit whizzo, wizard, US crackerjack, crack: Davis is an expert snooker player.
expiration n. expiry, finish, (coming to an) end, termination, running out, ending, conclusion, concluding, close, closing, discontinuance, discontinuation: The expiration of the option is in March.
explain v. 1 interpret, define, explicate, detail, delineate, make plain, simplify, spell out, resolve, get across, clarify, clear up, elucidate, illustrate, expound, describe, disclose, unfold, unravel, untangle: The teacher explained the theory so that even I could understand it. 2 Also, explain away. justify, account for, excuse, rationalize, legitimate, legitimatize, extenuate, palliate: You will be required to explain your absence.
explanatory adj. explanative, elucidative, revelatory, interpretive or interpretative, expository, descriptive; critical, exegetic(al): Please read the explanatory notes below.
explicit adj. 1 specific, categorical, (crystal-)clear, definite, well-defined, distinct, unambiguous, precise, exact, unequivocal, express, stated, plain, manifest, unmistakable, positive, absolute, final, peremptory, unqualified, unconditional: The children had explicit instructions to keep away from the canal. 2 open, outspoken, unreserved, unrestrained, candid, frank, direct, forthright, straightforward, definite: She was explicit in her orders.
exploit n. 1 achievement, deed, feat, attainment, accomplishment: The speaker regaled them with tales of his exploits as an explorer. --v. 2 use, take advantage of, manipulate, make capital out of, profit from, utilize, turn to account, manoeuvre, work: Far from being your friends, they are exploiting you for their own purposes. They need capital to exploit the country's natural resources.
explore v. 1 survey, tour, travel, reconnoitre, traverse: They are on safari, exploring the Congo. 2 investigate, scrutinize, examine, inquire or enquire into, inspect, probe, search, research, look into, study, analyse, review, observe: We ought to explore the possibility of your working for us.
explosive adj. 1 volatile, sensitive, delicate, tense, anxious, fraught, touch-and-go, touchy, inflammable, (highly) charged, unstable, uncertain, unsound, shaky, hazardous, chancy, unpredictable, precarious, dangerous, perilous, critical, nasty, ugly, Colloq dicey, iffy: The explosive situation between the strikers and management may lead to bloodshed. --n. 2 dynamite, TNT, gunpowder, gelignite, plastic, plastique: The car was blown up by a powerful charge of explosive.
exposition n. 1 exhibition, show(ing), presentation, display, demonstration, US exhibit , Colloq expo: There is a special exposition of medieval farming implements in the museum. 2 description, declaration, statement, explanation, explication, clarification, interpretation, exegesis: The exposition of his argument was remarkably lucid. 3 paper, theme, article, essay, thesis, dissertation, treatise, disquisition, study, critique, commentary: She received high marks for her exposition on Zoroastrianism.
express v. 1 articulate, verbalize, phrase, utter, voice, state, word, put (into words), set or put forth, put or get across, communicate, depict, portray; say, speak, tell: She expressed her thoughts on the subject very clearly. 2 show, indicate, demonstrate, manifest, exhibit, evince, evidence, reveal, expose, disclose, divulge, make known, intimate, betoken, signify, embody, depict, designate, denote, convey: His tone of voice expressed his resentment. 3 symbolize, represent, signify, stand for, denote, designate: The ratio can be expressed in the form of a fraction. 4 press or squeeze or wring or force out, expel, extract: The oil is expressed from ripe olives. --adj. 5 explicit, clear, plain, unambiguous, unmistakable, unqualified, outright, definite, out-and-out, downright, straightforward, categorical, direct, specific, well-defined, distinct, precise, accurate, exact, positive: We had an express understanding not to enter into competition with one another. 6 specific, special, particular, clear-cut; true: Our express purpose in coming was to see you. 7 quick, speedy, swift, fast, rapid, prompt, immediate; direct, non-stop: The documents must be sent by express delivery.
expressive adj. 1 indicative, suggestive, allusive, eloquent, revealing, meaningful, significant, denotative: Her frown is expressive of her disapproval. 2 pointed, pithy, explicit: Leave it to him to make some expressive remark about Frieda's hat. 3 striking, vivid, telling, pregnant, loaded, forceful, moving, emotional, poignant, provocative, thought-provoking: His poetry contains much expressive language.
expulsion n. expelling, ejection, eviction, repudiation, ouster, removal, dismissal, discharge; Colloq the (old) heave-ho, Brit the boot, the sack, sacking, US the bounce: His expulsion from the pub was accompanied by cheers from the patrons.
extemporaneous adj. unstudied, unpremeditated, extempore, extemporary, impromptu, improvised, spontaneous, unrehearsed, extemporized, unprepared, unplanned, unscripted, offhand, ad lib, extempore, Colloq off the cuff: Though extraordinarily well-organized, Charlotte's speech was entirely extemporaneous.
extension n. 1 stretching, expansion, increase, enlargement, augmentation, development, amplification, broadening, widening, lengthening, spread, spreading: The extension of the plan is scheduled for next year. 2 range, extensiveness, scope, extent, magnitude, gauge, compass, sweep, reach, size, volume, dimension(s), proportions, capacity, span; breadth, width, height, length, spread, stretch: The extension of the mind seems almost limitless. 3 addendum, addition, annexe, wing, adjunct, ell, appendage; appendix, supplement: We have built an extension to the house.
extent n. 1 magnitude, dimensions, compass, size, range, scale, sweep, scope, expanse, immensity, enormousness, capaciousness, spaciousness, space, amplitude: The extent of space is unimaginably vast. 2 limit, bounds, limitation, lengths; range, scope: To what extent will he go to see justice done? 3 area, region, tract, territory, compass: In the whole extent of Europe you could find no better mushroom.
exterior adj. 1 outer, outside, external, outward, superficial, surface: The exterior covering of the capsule becomes very hot on re-entry into the earth's atmosphere. 2 external, extrinsic, extraneous, foreign, alien, exotic, outside: The problem can be overcome without exterior help. --n. 3 outside, surface, covering, coating, facing, face, front, skin, shell, faade: The exterior is of pink stucco.
external adj. 1 outer, outside, outward, exterior: This medication is for external use only. 2 outside, exterior, extrinsic, extraneous, alien, foreign, exotic: Do not ignore the external influences on the nation's economy. 3 apparent, visible, perceptible, superficial, surface: The external features of the planet barely suggest what lies within.
extinguish v. 1 put or snuff or blow out, quench; turn off or out: We are landing shortly, so please extinguish all smoking materials. Extinguish the lights before leaving. 2 kill (off), annihilate, destroy, obliterate, abolish, exterminate, eliminate, do away with, nullify, eradicate, remove, banish, wipe or blot out: The potion contained a drug that extinguished all memory of unhappiness. 3 obscure, eclipse, dim, outdo, put in the shade, overshadow, adumbrate, Colloq show up: His personality is completely extinguished by the dazzle of his wife.
extort v. exact, extract, blackmail, bully, coerce, force, wring, wrest, Colloq milk, bleed, put the arm on (someone): Threatening to swear that it was my fault, she extorted a promise from me to keep silent about the body.
extract v. 1 draw or pull (out), remove, withdraw, pluck or take out, draw forth, extricate: The dentist extracted two teeth. I extracted some important papers from your waste-paper basket. 2 draw, derive, deduce, develop, glean, extricate, distil, get, obtain: I could extract little sense from her ramblings. 3 wrench, wring, wrest, extort, draw (forth), evoke, elicit, extricate, winkle out, worm (out), prise (out), force (out): Using torture, they finally extracted a confession from him. She extracted money from her victims by threatening to tell their wives. 4 copy, quote, cite, abstract, select, choose, glean, cull: We extracted useful material from some old encyclopedias. --n. 5 concentrate, distillate, essence, distillation, quintessence, concentration, extraction, decoction: We boiled off the water and used the extract as a salve. 6 excerpt, abstract, quotation, citation, clipping, cutting, passage, selection: Extracts from other works are printed in smaller type.
extraneous adj. 1 unessential, non-essential, inessential, peripheral, superfluous, unnecessary, unneeded, extra, added, additional, adventitious, supernumerary, incidental, needless: Filter out all the extraneous substances. 2 not pertinent, impertinent, inapplicable, inapt, unapt, unfitting, inappropriate, unrelated, irrelevant, inapposite, unconnected, remote, alien, foreign, exotic, strange, outlandish, external, extrinsic, external, out of place, off the mark or point or subject, beside the point or mark: Why must you constantly bring up extraneous matters?
extravagance n. 1 wastefulness, waste, lavishness, profligacy, prodigality, squandering, dissipation, improvidence, exorbitance, recklessness, overspending, excess: Our present debts are the result of extravagance. 2 immoderation, immoderateness, excessiveness, outrageousness, unrestraint, superfluity, superfluousness, over-sufficiency, preposterousness, unreasonableness, irrationality, absurdity; capriciousness, whim, fantasy, flightiness: His tawdry life belied the extravagance of his dreams.
extravaganza n. spectacular, spectacle, pageant, production, show, exposition: An extravaganza was staged to celebrate the opening of the Channel Tunnel.
extremely adv. very, exceedingly, outrageously, extraordinarily, unusually, uncommonly, exceptionally, damned, hellishly, to the nth degree, Colloq Brit bloody, US darned: The service was extremely bad. They are extremely stupid.
extricate v. unravel, disentangle, untangle, disengage, (set) free, turn loose, release, liberate, rescue, save, deliver: You helped extricate me from a terrible predicament.
exuberance n. 1 cheerfulness, joy, joyfulness, ebullience, effervescence, exhilaration, buoyancy, animation, spirit, spiritedness, sprightliness, liveliness, vitality, vivacity, enthusiasm, excitement, zeal, zest, energy, vigour: It is hard to imagine the dog's exuberance when he saw his master. 2 abundance, lavishness, effusiveness, flamboyance, copiousness, superabundance, superfluity, excess, profusion, prodigality, bounteousness, bountifulness: Everything attests to the exuberance of the author's genius.
exult v. rejoice, revel, glory (in), jump for joy, delight, celebrate, make merry: We exulted in our new-found freedom.
eye n. 1 eyeball, orb, Colloq optic: The eye of the eagle is nearly as large as that of an elephant. 2 vision, (eye)sight, visual acuity, perception: Her eyes are weakened by so much reading. 3 discernment, perception, taste, judgement, discrimination, percipience, perspicacity, appreciation, sensitivity; knowledge, recognition, comprehension: Shirley has a good eye for Chinese antiques. Walmsley has the eye of an artist. 4 liking, affection, fondness, partiality, appreciation; lustfulness: Old Bisley still has an eye for the girls. 5 ogle, leer, look, wink, glad eye, sidelong glance: The barmaid gave me the eye as soon as I walked in. 6 view, respect, regard, aim, intention, purpose, design, plan, idea, notion: He lent me the money with an eye to asking a favour in return. 7 attention, regard, look, scrutiny, view, examination, observation; supervision: All our comings and goings were under the watchful eye of Scotland Yard. 8 guard, lookout, watch, vigil: The class monitor is expected to keep an eye on the younger children. --v. 9 examine, scrutinize, look at, regard: My future mother-in-law eyed me up and down. 10 behold, gaze or look or peer at or upon, contemplate, study, regard, view, inspect; watch, observe: The doctor eyed the wound with concern.
fabric n. 1 cloth, textile, material, stuff: The chair is upholstered in traditional floral fabric. 2 construction, constitution, core, heart, foundation, structure, framework, organization, configuration, make-up: Extensive strikes threatened the very fabric of our society.
fabrication n. 1 construction, assembly, assemblage, making, fashioning, production, manufacture, putting together, building, erection, formation, formulation, structuring, constructing, organization, forming, framing, architecture: The fabrication of thousands of parts took only a month. 2 invention, creation, origination, make-up, manufacture, hatching, concoction, contrivance, design: Only Vanessa could have been responsible for the fabrication of such a diabolical plot. 3 falsehood, lie, fib, prevarication, story, tale, untruth, fiction, yarn, fable; falsification, forgery, fake, sham, Colloq cock-and-bull story, Brit fairy story, fairy tale: His war record is a complete fabrication.
face n. 1 visage, countenance, physiognomy, features, lineaments, Slang mug, mush, kisser, pan, puss, Brit phiz, phizog, dial, clock: I don't like the expression on your face. 2 look, appearance, aspect, expression, mien: He has the face of someone who is very proud of himself. Modern farming has changed the face of the countryside. 3 mask, veneer, faade, front, camouflage, pretence, disguise, (false) impression, semblance, masquerade: She puts on a bold face, but we know she was deeply hurt by your remarks. 4 dignity, image, self-respect, standing, reputation, repute, name, honour, status: You might lose face if you admit you were wrong. 5 boldness, daring, audacity, effrontery, impudence, impertinence, presumption, brashness, Colloq gall, brass, nerve, cheek, guts, gutsiness, Brit brass neck, Slang US balls: Who would have the face to name such a hotel 'The Palace'? 6 surface, exterior, front, outside, cover, facing, faade, skin: The building will have a face of white marble. 7 right side, obverse, front; dial: The card landed face up. The face of the clock is enamelled. 8 face to face. confronting, facing, opposite, en face, vis--vis, tte--tte, deux, eye to eye, head to head, Colloq eyeball to eyeball: We met face to face for the first time in the courtroom. 9 in the face of. in defiance of, notwithstanding, despite, in spite of, confronting, in opposition to: Some experts attacked the report for flying in the face of received wisdom. 10 make a face. grimace, change one's expression, murgeon: When I said I would be there, she made a face. 11 on the face of it. to all or outward appearances, seemingly, apparently, superficially, evidently: On the face of it, I assumed that he was guilty. 12 show one's face. put in or make an appearance, appear, arrive, be seen, turn up, Colloq show up: I suppose I ought to show my face at the office party. 13 to one's face. directly, brazenly, eye to eye, face to face, candidly, openly, frankly: I told him to his face that he was a liar. --v. 14 confront, brave, meet (with), encounter, experience, deal or cope with, come or go up against; appear before: In the jungle we faced grave danger from man-eating tigers. She faces her first audience tonight. 15 give (out) or front on or onto, front towards, overlook, look out on or over; be opposite: Our rooms face the lake. Facing page 22 is a map of the area. 16 coat, surface, cover, clad, dress, sheathe, overlay, finish; veneer: The collar is faced with velvet. 17 face down. confront, intimidate, cow, subdue, overawe, browbeat: I'll not be faced down by that impudent clerk. 18 face up to. a admit, accept, acknowledge, allow, confess: We must all face up to our own shortcomings. b confront, deal or cope with, come or go up against, brave, come to terms with; brazen through or out, bite (on) the bullet, grasp the nettle: You wouldn't be able to face up to your wife if you'd forgotten her birthday.
facility n. 1 ease, smoothness, fluency, effortlessness, readiness, easiness, skill, skilfulness, deftness, dexterity, adroitness, ability, aptitude, expertise, expertness, proficiency, mastery, masterfulness, masterliness, efficiency; quickness, alacrity, celerity, swiftness, speed: They praised her new-found facility with the Italian language. 2 Often, facilities. a plant, system, building(s), structure, complex: The company is building a new facility in France. b convenience(s), privy, equipment, lavatory, toilet, powder-room, Nautical head, Brit water-closet, WC, loo, US and Canadian rest room, men's room, ladies' room, Colloq the Gents, the Ladies('), Slang Brit bog, karzy, US and Canadian john: An American asked where he could find the facilities.
facsimile n. copy, reproduction, print, carbon (copy), replica, duplicate, photocopy, fax, Trade Mark Xerox (copy), Photostat, Colloq US dupe: Send a facsimile of the report to each field office.
faction n. 1 group, cabal, bloc, cadre, camp, splinter group, circle, camarilla, clique, set, coterie, lobby, pressure group, junta or junto, ring, gang, Brit ginger group, Colloq crowd: There is a small faction plotting to assassinate the finance minister. 2 dissension, intrigue, strife, sedition, disharmony, discord, disagreement, quarrelling, contention, controversy, infighting, rupture, split, rift, schism, clash: Faction within the party has no regard for national interests.
factitious adj. fake(d), bogus, false, mock, falsified, artificial, insincere, unreal, synthetic, fabricated, engineered, manufactured, spurious, counterfeit, sham, simulated, imitation, unauthentic, set or got up, rigged, Colloq phoney or US also phony: We are all victims of factitious desires by which luxuries have become necessities.
factory n. works, mill, plant: She has a job at the piano factory.
faculty n. 1 ability, capacity, skill, aptitude, potential, talent, flair, knack, gift, genius; dexterity, adroitness, cleverness, capability: She has a faculty for making people feel at home. 2 school, department, discipline: Her graduate studies were in the Faculty of Philosophy. 3 staff, personnel, members, Brit dons: Each member of the faculty has a doctorate. 4 power, authorization, dispensation, sanction, licence, prerogative, privilege, right, permission, liberty: The government has the faculty to judge treasonable acts.
fade v. 1 (grow) dim or pale, grow faint, cloud (over), dull; bleach, whiten, etiolate, wash out, blanch or blench, discolour: The scene faded in the distance. Look how the sun has faded the curtains! 2 droop, wither, decline, die out or away, perish, ebb, flag, wane, wilt, waste away, sag, diminish, dwindle, languish, deteriorate, decay, shrivel, peter out or away: As he aged, his lust for life faded.
fail v. 1 not succeed, be unsuccessful, miss, miscarry, misfire, fall short (of), fall flat, fall through, falter, be (found) lacking or wanting, be defective, be deficient, be or prove inadequate, come to grief or naught or nothing, go wrong, abort, meet with disaster, founder, run aground, Colloq flop, fizzle (out), go up in smoke, flunk: Guy Fawkes's plot failed utterly. Gloria failed her history examination. 2 let down, disappoint, forsake, desert, abandon, neglect, ignore, slight: I was really counting on Mary, but she failed me. 3 decline, peter out, dwindle, diminish, wane, deteriorate, weaken, decay, fade or die (out or away), disappear, flag, ebb, sink, languish, give out; gutter, go out: His health is failing. The light failed, leaving us in darkness. 4 go bankrupt, go out of business, go under, go into receivership, become insolvent, close up shop, close up or down, cease operation(s), Brit go to the wall, US file for Chapter Eleven, Colloq fold (up), go bust or broke, US drown in red ink: According to the statistics, hundreds of businesses fail every week.
failure n. 1 failing, default, non-performance, remissness; neglect, omission, dereliction, deficiency: His failure to do his duty resulted in a court martial. 2 breakdown, collapse, discontinuance, miscarriage, loss; decline, decay, deterioration: Power disruptions are caused by the failure of the national grid. 3 loser, non-starter, incompetent, also-ran, nonentity, Colloq flop, fizzle, damp squib, dud, lemon, washout, dead duck, US lead balloon: He was an utter failure as a violinist. 4 bankruptcy, ruin, insolvency, downfall, crash, Colloq folding: Bank failures increased owing to bad loans and other poor investments.
faint-hearted adj. 1 cowardly, timorous, afraid, frightened, scared, faint, lily-livered, white-livered, pusillanimous; timid, shy, diffident; Colloq yellow(-bellied), chicken-hearted, chicken-livered, chicken: He's too faint-hearted to ask her to marry him. 2 irresolute, weak, ineffectual, feeble, puny, feckless: She made only a faint-hearted attempt at reconciliation.
fair n. fte, festival, kermis or kirmess, exhibition, exposition, show; market, bazaar, mart, US exhibit: Ashby will judge the sheep at the annual fair.
fairyland n. dreamland, wonderland, never-never land, happy valley, paradise, cloud-land, enchanted forest, cloud-cuckoo-land, Nephelococcygia, Shangri-La: Zuleika's thoughts are always off somewhere in fairyland.
faithful adj. 1 true, loyal, devoted, steadfast, dedicated, attached, unswerving, firm, staunch, unwavering, constant: He has always remained faithful to his wife. 2 close, exact, accurate, true, correct, precise, perfect, valid; literal: Jowett's is a faithful translation from the Greek. 3 conscientious, dutiful, scrupulous, careful, meticulous, thorough, punctilious, finicky or finical, detailed, fastidious, rigorous, rigid, severe, particular: He received a gold watch for fifty years of faithful attendance to his duties. 4 reliable, dependable, trusted, trustworthy, trusty, honest, true, truthful, righteous, right, moral, virtuous, upright, veracious: He has remained my faithful friend for many years.
fake v. 1 falsify, doctor, alter, modify, counterfeit, fabricate, manufacture, forge: He faked the evidence in order to implicate his own sister. 2 pretend, make a pretence of, dissemble, feign, sham, make believe, simulate, affect: She faked a headache to avoid gym classes. --n. 3 hoax, counterfeit, sham, forgery, imitation, Colloq phoney or US also phony: The experts agree that the painting is a fake. 4 faker, impostor, charlatan, fraud, hoaxer, mountebank, cheat, humbug, quack, pretender, Colloq phoney or US also phony: He isn't a doctor - he's a fake! --adj. 5 false, counterfeit, forged, sham, fraudulent, imitation, pinchbeck, bogus, spurious, factitious, Colloq phoney or US also phony: He escaped the country using a fake passport.
fallacy n. misconception, miscalculation, misjudgement, mistake, error, non sequitur, solecism, delusion; paralogism; sophism: It is a fallacy to think that you could ever learn to play the violin as well as Susannah.
falsehood n. lie, fib, prevarication, untruth, fabrication, misstatement, fiction, (fairy) tale, story, distortion, Colloq cock-and-bull story, Slang Brit load of codswallop: That was a complete falsehood about the goings-on in the attic, wasn't it?
falsity n. untruthfulness, mendacity, mendaciousness, fraudulence, deceptiveness, deceit, deceitfulness, dishonesty, spuriousness, speciousness, casuistry, hypocrisy, insincerity, falseness: The prosecution was unable to prove the falsity of her statement.
familiar adj. 1 well-known, common, commonplace, everyday, ordinary, current: That's a familiar melody. 2 frequent, usual, customary, habitual, routine, traditional: He strolled along his familiar route through the trees. 3 friendly, affable, close, intimate, sociable, social, free, free and easy, relaxed; over-friendly, overfree, overfamiliar, bold, forward, insolent, impudent, presumptuous, presuming, disrespectful, unreserved, unrestrained; informal, casual, cordial, unceremonious; Colloq chummy, Slang US and Canadian buddy-buddy, palsy-walsy: She began to get entirely too familiar. 4 familiar with. aware or conscious or cognizant of, knowledgeable about or of or in, conversant or acquainted with, no stranger to, on speaking terms with, up on or in, (well-)versed in, informed of or about, privy to, in the know about, au courant, au fait: Are you familiar with the latest theories in particle physics?
familiarize v. Usually, familiarize with. accustom (to), make familiar or acquaint (with), initiate (in), inform (about or on), enlighten (about or as to), teach (about), educate or instruct or tutor (in): I am trying to familiarize myself with the music of John Cage.
famine n. starvation; shortage, dearth, scarcity, deficiency, paucity, exiguity, barrenness, lack: In days of abundance, no one should die of famine.
famous adj. renowned, celebrated, popular, famed, well-known, noted, eminent, pre-eminent, conspicuous, prominent, illustrious, notable, acclaimed, venerable, legendary, distinguished, praiseworthy, honoured, lionized: A famous architect has been invited to address the convention.
fan n. admirer, enthusiast, adherent, devotee, aficionado, follower, supporter, lover, zealot, Colloq buff, fiend, hound, bug, addict, nut, US booster, Slang junkie, freak, groupie: Avid fans of Ascot United, we go to all the matches.
fanatical adj. fanatic, extreme, distracted, maniacal, mad, rabid, zealous, frenzied, feverish, burning, frantic, frenetic, obsessive, fervent, compulsive, monomaniacal, fervid, perfervid, passionate, enthusiastic, agog, immoderate, excessive: The entire family are fanatical in their fundamentalism.
fancied adj. imaginary, unreal, fanciful, imagined, illusory, make-believe, mythical, fairy-tale: They support their king in the pursuit of his fancied rights.
fancy adj. 1 ornate, decorative, decorated, ornamental, ornamented, elaborate, embellished, embroidered, fanciful, extravagant, rococo, baroque, gingerbread, Byzantine, complicated, intricate, complex: The modern trend has been away from fancy architecture. 2 illusory, capricious, fanciful, extravagant, fantastic, far-fetched, delusive, whimsical, visionary, unrealistic, grandiose: He has some fancy ideas about building an undersea city. 3 de luxe, luxury, luxurious, choice, select, prime, special, elegant, superior, quality, high-class; posh: They stock only fancy fruits and vegetables. She has a fancy suite at the Cardigan Hotel. 4 high, exorbitant, inflated, outrageous: One has to pay very fancy prices for haute couture. --n. 5 imagination, creation, conception, inventiveness, creativeness, creativity: These chimeras are entirely a product of his fancy. 6 imagination, fantasy, hallucination, delusion, illusion, unreality, make-believe, dream, day-dream, pipedream, mirage, phantasm, phantom, figment (of the imagination), impression: Our plans for the future must be based on fact, not fancy. 7 liking, inclination, fondness, taste, penchant, attraction, preference, partiality, predilection, yearning, craving, hankering, wish, desire, longing: Miss Crow's fancy for younger men often causes her some embarrassment. 8 idea, whim, caprice, whimsy, urge, impulse, notion, vagary, quirk, crotchet, peculiarity: His fancy today is that he invented electricity. --v. 9 imagine, conceive, picture, visualize, envisage, think or make up, conjure up, US envision, Colloq dream up: He fancies himself on a big yacht in the Mediterranean. 10 think, imagine, understand, believe, suspect, guess, conjecture, presume, surmise, assume, take it, suppose, infer, reckon: From his costume I fancy he must be Superman. Fancy Kim winning the Nobel prize! 11 like, be attracted to, take (a liking) to, desire, want, crave, long or pine for, have a yen or craving for, have an eye for, wish for, hunger for, favour, prefer, lust after: Terry has always fancied tall women. I wouldn't fancy being 40 feet up a swaying ladder like that.
fantasize v. dream, imagine, day-dream, muse, mull (over), build castles in the air or in Spain, speculate, envisage, star-gaze; hallucinate, US envision: She often fantasized about the kind of man she would marry.
fantasy n. 1 imagination, fancy, creativity, inventiveness, creativity, originality: We encourage the children to give free rein to their fantasy. 2 vision, hallucination, illusion, mirage, delusion, chimera, dream, day-dream, (flight of) fancy, pipedream: Her fantasy is to become prime minister. 3 make-believe, invention, cabrication, fiction, masquerade, fable, concoction, pretence: His story about being an orphan is pure fantasy.
far-away adj. 1 faraway, distant, remote, far-off, outlying, far-flung: People came from far-away places as news of the miracle spread. 2 faraway, dreamy, detached, absent, absent-minded, abstracted: When you have that far-away expression, I know you don't hear a word I say.
fare n. 1 passenger, traveller: The taxi-driver deposited his fare at the hotel. 2 charge, price, cost: What is the fare from Oxford to London? 3 food, diet, victuals, meals, viands, eatables, provisions: Prison fare consisted of bread and water. --v. 4 do, make one's way, manage, get on or along, make out, survive: The children didn't fare very well on their own.
far-fetched adj. strained, stretched, improbable, implausible, unlikely, doubtful, dubious, questionable, forced, unconvincing, unrealistic, fantastic, preposterous, hard to believe, unbelievable, incredible, Colloq hard to swallow, fishy: They told some far-fetched tale about being robbed by a gang of midgets.
farmer n. husbandman, agriculturist, agronomist, yeoman, Brit smallholder, US dialect granger: The farmers here were hard hit by the drought.
far-sighted adj. 1 far-seeing, foresighted, prescient, provident, prudent, shrewd, perceptive, discerning, insightful, wise, sagacious, acute, sharp, astute, sensible, imaginative: The committee drew up a far-sighted plan for the redevelopment of the town centre. 2 long-sighted, hyperopic or hypermetropic, presbyopic: I'm far-sighted, so I wear glasses only for reading.
fascination n. enchantment, sorcery, magic, attractiveness, attraction, draw, pull, (animal) magnetism, charm, allure, captivation, influence, witchcraft, entrancement: Blondes always held a strange fascination for him.
fashionable adj. in fashion, chic, la mode, modish, stylish, smart, in vogue, up to the minute, up to date, Colloq trendy, in, with it, Colloq Brit all the go: The couturiers insist that black will be fashionable this year.
fast v. 1 abstain, go hungry, deny oneself, diet, starve (oneself): Do you fast during Lent? --n. 2 abstention, abstinence, fasting, self-denial, diet; hunger strike: She went on a two-week fast.
fastening n. fastener, catch, clasp, latch, lock, tie, bond: Can you see what kind of fastening is holding the cover?
fat adj. 1 obese, stout, overweight, heavy, plump, rotund, corpulent, portly, well-fed, chubby, podgy or chiefly US pudgy, roly-poly, tubby, bulky, fleshy, paunchy, pot-bellied, overfed, flabby, elephantine, Colloq broad in the beam, beamy, beefy, Slang US five-by-five: A fat man squeezed in beside me. 2 oily, oleaginous, unctuous, greasy, fatty, pinguid, sebaceous, adipose: His complexion is bad because he eats too much fat food. 3 rich, wealthy, prosperous, affluent, well-to-do, well off, Colloq well-heeled, loaded: They grew fat on their profits from the black market. 4 profitable, lucrative, fruitful, remunerative, Slang cushy: He has a fat job as a purchasing agent for the government. --n. 5 obesity, corpulence, stoutness, overweight, heaviness, plumpness, rotundity, portliness, chubbiness, podginess or chiefly US pudginess, tubbiness, fleshiness, paunchiness, flabbiness: He leans a little towards fat because of lack of exercise. 6 riches, wealth, prosperity, fertility, yield, abundance, plenty, plenteousness: He's living off the fat of the land.
fatality n. 1 catastrophe, disaster, calamity, cataclysm: The eruption of Vesuvius was a relatively recent fatality. 2 death, casualty: Traffic fatalities are on the increase.
fated adj. 1 destined, predestined, predetermined, decreed, doomed, fateful, ordained, foreordained, preordained, decided: The fated day of my trial arrived. 2 sure, certain, doomed, damned, cursed: Was I fated to spend the rest of my life in this fetid dungeon? 3 fatal, fateful, unavoidable, inescapable, inevitable, ineluctable: Their fated punishment was to bail out the sea using sieves.
father n. 1 sire, paterfamilias, Colloq dad, daddy, pa, papa, pop, old man, old boy, Brit governor, pater: His father is a chemist. 2 forebear, ancestor, forefather, progenitor, primogenitor: The father of the dynasty fought at Hastings. 3 creator, founder, originator, inventor, author, architect, framer, initiator: He regards Lavoisier as the father of modern chemistry. 4 priest, confessor, cur, abb, minister, pastor, shepherd, parson, clergyman, chaplain, Colloq padre, Military slang sky pilot: We should see the Father about the funeral service. --v. 5 sire, beget, get, engender, procreate, generate: He had fathered more than forty children in his harem. 6 originate, establish, found, invent, author, frame, initiate, institute, create: Galileo fathered modern astronomy by inventing the telescope.
fatherly adj. paternal, kindly, kind, warm, friendly, affectionate, protective, amiable, benevolent, well-meaning, benign, caring, sympathetic, indulgent, understanding; parental: My nephew used to come to me for fatherly advice.
fatigue n. 1 weariness, tiredness, weakness, exhaustion, lassitude, listlessness, lethargy, languor, sluggishness, enervation: She kept on tending the wounded till fatigue finally overcame her. --v. 2 weary, tire, weaken, exhaust, drain, enervate, Colloq fag (out): My morning's work had fatigued me.
fatness n. obesity, stoutness, corpulence, embonpoint, portliness, plumpness, chubbiness, rotundity, podginess or chiefly US pudginess: His fatness is owing to a glandular condition, not overeating.
fault-finding n. 1 criticism, censure, carping, cavilling, captiousness, hypercriticism, quibbling, fussiness, hair-splitting, pettifogging, Colloq nit-picking, pickiness: Why continue to put up with the foreman's fault-finding? --adj. 2 critical, censorious, carping, cavilling, captious, hypercritical, fussy, hair-splitting, pettifogging, niggling, contentious, querulous, quibbling, Colloq nit-picking, picky: She could no longer abide his fault-finding attitude.
faulty adj. defective, unsound, imperfect, flawed, impaired, out of order, malfunctioning, broken, bad; damaged; Slang on the blink, Chiefly US on the fritz: The carburettor is faulty.
favourable adj. 1 advantageous, promising, auspicious, fair, beneficial, suitable, fitting, appropriate, encouraging, facilitative, helpful, helping, supportive, supporting, convenient, useful, opportune, propitious, accommodating, accommodative; facultative: A favourable breeze sent our craft towards Cyprus. 2 good, promising, positive, encouraging, reassuring, affirmative, well-disposed, sympathetic; commendatory, laudatory, enthusiastic, eager, ardent, zealous: They concluded a very favourable deal to supply the army with boots. My latest book received favourable reviews.
favoured adj. 1 preferred, chosen, choice, selected, popular, favourite, pet: The favoured explanation is that he is the boss's son. 2 advantaged, privileged, blessed, prosperous, wealthy, rich, affluent, well off: She is one of the favoured few who can afford to travel.
favouritism n. partiality, bias, predisposition, prepossession, prejudice, bent, partisanship, nepotism, preferment; preference, leaning, inclination, proclivity: He openly admits to favouritism in selecting employees.
fearful adj. 1 afraid, scared, frightened, terrified, alarmed, panic-stricken, terror-stricken: Of all disasters, I am most fearful of fire. 2 hesitant, timid, timorous, shy, diffident, unwilling, intimidated, jumpy, nervous, edgy, panicky, anxious, apprehensive, cowardly, pusillanimous, Colloq yellow, jittery: Why is she so fearful of meeting her prospective in-laws? 3 awful, dire, dreadful, frightful, frightening, terrifying, terrible, appalling, ghastly, atrocious, horrible, horrifying, horrendous, horrific, hideous, gruesome, grisly, grim, baleful, monstrous, unspeakable, loathsome, heinous, repugnant, repulsive, revolting, disgusting, nauseating, nauseous: The fearful monster blocked our only way out.
fearless adj. brave, bold, intrepid, valorous, dauntless, courageous, valiant, plucky, daring, audacious, heroic, venturesome, gallant, chivalrous: These fearless commandos cared nothing for their personal safety.
feasibility n. practicability, workability, applicability, viability, practicality: The feasibility of the scheme has yet to be assessed.
feast n. 1 banquet, (lavish) dinner, (sumptuous) repast, (Lucullan or Epicurean) treat, Colloq spread, Brit beanfeast; Slang blow-out, Brit beano: Dinner at Patrick's is no mere meal - it is a feast. 2 observance, celebration, rite, ritual, solemnization, commemoration, memorialization, anniversary, birthday, jubilee, feast-day, festival, fte, holy day, holiday, red-letter day, occasion, event, gala: Church calendars list both movable and immovable feasts. 3 treat, delight, pleasure, gratification: Seeing you again was a feast for the eyes. --v. 4 dine, wine (and dine), fare well or sumptuously, (over)indulge, gorge (oneself), gormandize, eat one's fill: We feasted on roast turkey with all the trimmings. 5 entertain, feed, wine and dine, treat, regale: Visitors to Arthur's court were feasted with the finest viands available. 6 delight, gratify, please, cheer, gladden: Ali Baba feasted his eyes on the vast treasure in the cave.
feature n. 1 characteristic, attribute, trait, mark, hallmark, earmark, property, character, quality, aspect, facet, peculiarity, quirk, idiosyncrasy: What are the identifying features of traditional Chinese architecture? 2 (main) attraction, draw, special attraction, high point or spot, best or memorable part; main film; US and Canadian drawing card; column, piece, article, item: The feature of the show was the appearance of Gracie Fields. He writes the gardening feature for a Sunday newspaper. 3 features. face, visage, physiognomy, countenance, looks, Slang mug, kisser, chips and plaice: Her features twisted into a frown. --v. 4 present, promote, publicize, advertise, highlight, spotlight, put into the limelight, star, stress, emphasize, call attention to, play up, puff up, Colloq headline, hype: He was featured in many films. 5 be, act, perform, take or have a role or part, participate, be involved or drawn in: Novels feature prominently in our publishing programme.
fee n. 1 charge, price, cost, fare, bill, tariff, toll, Colloq damage(s): The membership fee is 25. 2 pay, payment, emolument, compensation, recompense, honorarium, remuneration, rate, wage(s), stipend, salary: What is your fee per hour for proofreading?
feeble-minded adj. stupid, dull(-witted), witless, moronic, idiotic, imbecilic, simple, slow (on the uptake), slow-witted, weak-minded, dim-witted, addle-pated, halfwitted, deficient, subnormal, mentally defective, retarded, attocerebral, Brit ESN (='educationally subnormal'), Colloq dumb, thick, soft in the head, boneheaded, empty-headed, vacant, Brit gormless, US exceptional: Why do you spend so much time with that feeble-minded twit?
feel v. 1 touch, see, note, sense, perceive, experience, determine; handle, manipulate, finger: Feel how rough the skin is at this spot. 2 stroke, caress, pet, fondle: I like to feel a bare carpet with my toes. 3 sense, be conscious of, perceive, be aware or sensible of, experience: I could feel the heat of the fire across the room. 4 sense, believe, think, perceive, judge, consider, deem, know, discern, intuit, Colloq get or have the impression, have a hunch, guess, have a (funny) feeling, feel in one's bones: I feel I have outstayed my welcome. 5 undergo, sense, suffer, bear, endure, withstand, stand, abide, brook, tolerate, go through: Let the other team feel the agony of defeat for a change. 6 seem, appear, strike one, give the impression, have a or the feeling: It felt as if a great weight has been lifted from me. It feels like old times. That feels silky. 7 seem to be, be, regard or characterize oneself as, take oneself to be: I feel certain that we've met before. I felt a perfect fool. 8 feel for. sympathize or empathize with, commiserate with, bleed for, be sorry for, pity, have compassion for: She feels for all mothers whose sons have died. 9 feel like. incline or lean to or towards, prefer, fancy, want, desire, crave: I feel like a cup of hot tea. --n. 10 texture, surface, sensation, touch, finish: This wood has the feel of satin. 11 feeling, air, atmosphere, climate, ambience, sense, note, tone, quality: It's so cosy here - it has the feel of home.
feeling n. 1 (sense of) touch, sensitivity, sense, perception, sensation, sensibility: I had no feeling in my left side. 2 intuition, idea, notion, inkling, suspicion, belief, hunch, theory, sense; premonition, hint, presentiment, sense of foreboding, sensation, impression, opinion, view; instinct, consciousness, awareness: I have a feeling you're fooling. Do you ever have the feeling of being watched? 3 regard, sympathy, empathy, identification, compassion, tenderness, appreciation, concern, understanding, sensitivity, sensibility: He has a genuine feeling for animals. 4 ardour, warmth, passion, fervency, fervour, ardency, intensity, heat, sentiment, emotion, vehemence: She said she loved me with so much feeling that I thought she meant it. 5 feelings. emotions, sensitivity, sympathies, sensibilities, susceptibilities: She hurt my feelings. 6 feel, mood, atmosphere, climate, sense, air, ambience or ambiance: There is a feeling of impending doom about this place. --adj. 7 sentient, sensitive, tender, tender-hearted, compassionate, sympathetic: Their behaviour did the soldiers honour as feeling men.
fell v. cut or knock or strike down, floor, prostrate, level, hew (down), flatten, demolish, mow (down); kill: He felled his opponent with one blow. All the trees in this area must be felled.
fellowship n. 1 companionship, camaraderie, comradeship, amity, brotherhood, fraternization, togetherness, association, friendship, amity, companionability, sociability, intimacy: I have always enjoyed the fellowship of my university colleagues. 2 society, club, association, alliance, guild, league, union, sisterhood, sorority, brotherhood, fraternity, congregation, circle, community, order, organization, consortium, partnership; lodge, clan, company, coterie, set, clique, coalition, bloc, cartel, trust: They belong to the worldwide fellowship of artists. 3 friendliness, clubbiness, sociability, intimacy, amicability, affability, kindliness, cordiality, familiarity, affinity, belonging, congeniality, warmth, hospitality: Being a club member gives him a feeling of fellowship.
feminine adj. 1 female, womanlike, womanly, ladylike, submissive, deferential, amenable, gentle, docile, tender, soft, delicate: She is much more feminine than her sister. 2 effeminate, womanish, unmanly, unmasculine, sissy or Brit cissy, sissified or Brit cissified, effete, affected: Barry's manner and behaviour seem to become more feminine every day.
fend v. 1 fend for oneself. get or scrape along (on one's own), make out, get by, make do, shift for oneself, take care of or provide for or support oneself: Mother didn't believe I could fend for myself. 2 fend off. discourage, parry, keep or hold at bay, resist, repel, stave or ward or fight off, deflect, turn aside, avert, divert: We fended off our attackers for three days.
ferocious adj. fierce, savage, cruel, vicious, feral, fell, brutal, bestial, merciless, ruthless, pitiless, inhuman, barbaric, barbarous, violent, destructive, murderous, bloodthirsty, sanguinary, predatory, fiendish, diabolical, devilish, hellish, monstrous: Cerberus, a ferocious beast with three heads, guards the gates of hell.
fertilize v. 1 impregnate, inseminate, pollinate, fecundate, fructify: The flower should be fertilized by pollen from a different stock. 2 manure, mulch, feed, nourish, enrich, dress, compost: The earth can be fertilized at any time.
fervour n. fervency, ardour, warmth, passion, vehemence, glow, intensity, zeal, eagerness, earnestness, enthusiasm, animation, gusto, ebullience, spirit, verve: She went about her studies with a fervour we had not seen before.
festival n. 1 holiday, holy day, fte, feast, commemoration, anniversary: He wanted to be with his family for the Christmas festival. 2 celebration, fte, festivities, carnival, entertainment, red-letter day, gala day, anniversary, birthday: The town organizes a festival every autumn.
fetch v. 1 get, go after or for, bring (back), retrieve, deliver, obtain, carry or convey (back): Would you please fetch my slippers? 2 summon, bring or draw forth, call, elicit: The doorbell fetched me from my bath. 3 sell for, bring (in), go for, yield, earn, make, cost, realize: These days a house near London fetches a high price. --n. 4 reach, stretch, range, span, extent: It is quite a long fetch across the bay.
fte n. 1 festival, entertainment, reception, levee, gala, rejoicing, celebration, party, festivities, get-together, social, amusement, revel, fair, ball, frolic, spree, jamboree, carnival, event, occasion, Colloq blow-out, shindig, bash, do, bust, Slang US and Canadian wingding, blast: You are invited to our annual fte on New Year's Eve. --v. 2 entertain, feast, roll or bring out the red carpet for, wine and dine, celebrate, honour, lionize, fuss over, kill the fatted calf for: Fiona's book was a great success and she was fted all over Europe.
feud n. 1 dispute, conflict, vendetta, hostility, strife, enmity, animosity, hatred, antagonism, rivalry, ill will, bad blood, hard feelings, contention, discord, grudge, dissension, disagreement, argument, quarrel, bickering, squabble, falling out, estrangement: A silly feud broke out over whose turn it was to bring the Christmas goose. --v. 2 dispute, quarrel, bicker, disagree, conflict, row, fight, fall out, clash, be at odds, be at daggers drawn: The Hatfields and McCoys feuded for decades.
few adj. 1 hardly or scarcely any, not many, insufficient; infrequent, occasional: Few people came to my party. He is a man of few words. --n. 2 handful, some, scattering: I invited a lot of people, but only a few came. --pron. 3 (only) one or two, not many: Many apply but few are chosen.
fiasco n. failure, disaster, muddle, mess, abortion, botch, Colloq fizzle, flop: My effort to help Donald with his maths homework was a complete fiasco.
fibre n. 1 filament, thread, strand, fibril, tendril: This fabric is woven from cotton fibre. 2 texture, structure, material, fabric: The fibre of this rock is granular. 3 essence, character, nature, mould, composition, constitution, substance, quality, stripe, cast, make-up: Love for him is wrapped up in the very fibre of her being.
fictional adj. unreal, imaginary, invented, made-up, mythical, fanciful; legendary, fabulous: The newspaper article was a hoax completely fictional. Lorna Doone is Janet's favourite fictional heroine.
fiddle v. 1 Often, fiddle with. meddle (with), tamper (with), interfere (with), alter, falsify, fix; cheat, swindle, flimflam; Colloq finagle, Brit cook: The treasurer had been fiddling the accounts for years. 2 Often, fiddle with or about or around. toy or trifle or fidget (with), twiddle or play or tinker (with), fool or fuss (with), Colloq mess or muck (about or around) (with), frivol (away), monkey (around) (with): He sat there nervously fiddling with his ear. Stop fiddling about and get on with your work. --n. 3 Brit swindle, fraud, racket, thimblerig, US shell-game, Slang skin game, funny business, monkey business: The tax inspector caught him in some fiddle with his business expenses. 4 violin, viola, viol, cello, violoncello, kit: He played fiddle for the tsar.
fidget v. 1 squirm, twitch, shuffle, wriggle, wiggle, fiddle, fuss; fret, chafe: Stop fidgeting and tell me the truth! --n. 2 fusspot, fuss-budget, cat on hot bricks, US cat on a hot tin roof, Colloq US nervous Nellie: If her conscience is clear, why is she such a fidget? 3 the fidgets. restlessness, fidgetiness, dither, uneasiness, the jitters, nervousness, itchiness, Colloq heebie-jeebies, jim-jams, ants in one's pants: Whenever he tells a lie he gets a bad case of the fidgets.
fiend n. 1 See devil. 2 addict, maniac, fanatic; fan, aficionado, enthusiast, devotee, hound, follower, Colloq buff, nut, Slang freak: He's a Welsh rarebit fiend.
fierce adj. 1 ferocious, savage, wild, truculent, brutish, feral, bestial, tigerish, brutal, cruel, fell, murderous, bloodthirsty, sanguinary, homicidal, barbaric, barbarous, inhuman, dangerous: The fierce beasts will tear you limb from limb. 2 intractable, angry, furious, hostile, aggressive, vehement, frenzied, stormy, violent, turbulent, wild, tempestuous, tumultuous, raging, merciless, uncontrollable: The old curmudgeon is in a fierce mood again today. A fierce storm raged for three days. 3 severe, awful, dreadful, intense, keen, dire, bitter, biting, racking: Wear warm clothes to protect you from the fierce cold.
fiery adj. 1 burning, flaming, blazing, hot, red-hot, white-hot, overheated; afire, on fire, in flames, ablaze: Fiery lava burst from the volcano. 2 glowing, red, incandescent, brilliant, luminous, glaring, gleaming, radiant; aglow, afire: We watched the fiery sunset fade into azure hues. 3 ardent, eager, spirited, passionate, excited, excitable, peppery, irascible, touchy, irritable, edgy, hotheaded, fierce: I had best not be late as my boss has a fiery temper.
figure n. 1 physique, build, shape, form, configuration, conformation, build, body, outline, silhouette; cut, cast; Slang bod, chassis: It's exercise that gives Kathy such a fine figure. 2 appearance, image, likeness, representation, semblance: The vision came to him in the figure of a dragon. 3 person, individual, human (being): A burly figure loomed up out of the fog. 4 statue, effigy, sculpture, bust, mould, cast, image, representation, idol, icon: Hundreds of figures are carved into the stone of the temple faade. 5 picture, illustration, diagram, drawing, sketch, plate: See Figure 12 for a graph showing the rate of inflation for the past decade. 6 personality, celebrity, somebody, leader, personage, worthy, notable, individual, presence, force, character: Chaplin looms large as a figure in the history of comedy. 7 number, numeral, cipher, digit; character, symbol, device, sign; design, pattern, motif, emblem: His salary is in six figures. --v. 8 Often, figure up. calculate, compute, reckon, work out; count, enumerate, numerate, total, tot up, tally, sum: Please figure up how much I owe you. 9 picture, imagine, think, take, reckon, consider, calculate, judge, believe; assume, presume, suppose; accept, acknowledge, concede: I never figured her to be the guilty one. 10 act, participate, take or play a part or role, appear, feature, have a place; be included or mentioned, be featured or conspicuous: He does not figure in my plans. 11 figure on or upon. a rely or depend on or upon, count on or upon, trust in, put faith in: You mustn't figure on his help. b plan on or upon, take into consideration or account, consider, make allowance for: They were figuring on consumer demand for a better mousetrap. 12 figure out. a calculate, reckon, compute, work out: I haven't yet figured out last year's profits and losses. b decipher, translate, understand, interpret, solve, grasp, get, fathom, see, perceive, Colloq dig, make head(s) or tail(s) of, get through one's head, get the hang or drift of, catch on (to), get a fix on, Brit twig, suss out: Can you figure out what this article is trying to say?
file n. 1 document, documentation, dossier, case, data, folder, portfolio, information: Interpol has files on Cowdery's activities going back ten years. 2 line, queue, column, row, rank: The file of armoured vehicles stretched for miles. --v. 3 classify, organize, systematize, categorize, alphabetize, chronologize, order, arrange, pigeon-hole, interfile, put or place in order, register, record, enter: Must all this correspondence be filed today? 4 submit, send in, complete, fill in or US and Canadian also fill out, enter: I have already filed my application for a transfer. 5 walk, march, troop, parade: Please file into the classroom and take your seats.
filling n. filler, stuffing, padding, wadding; contents, components, Colloq innards: What kind of filling do you like in a pie?
filmy adj. 1 gauzy, gossamer(-like), sheer, delicate, diaphanous, transparent, translucent, flimsy, light, cobwebby, insubstantial, see-through, peekaboo: Phoebe looked very seductive in her filmy negligee. 2 murky, blurry, cloudy, hazy, misty, bleary, blurred, dim, clouded, beclouded, milky, pearly, opalescent: We inched down the cliff in the filmy light of the moon.
filth n. 1 sewage or sewerage, dirt, slime, muck, sludge, sullage, effluent, pollution, trash, rubbish, garbage, refuse, ordure, (night-)soil, excrement, faeces, excreta, manure, droppings, guano, dung, foul matter, filthiness, offal, leavings, carrion, decay, putrescence, putrefaction, Slang crud, Brit gunge, US grunge, Taboo slang shit: Cleaning the filth from the Augean stables was the fifth labour of Hercules. 2 corruption, vileness, baseness, foulness, rottenness, debasement, defilement, taint, pollution, adulteration, perversion, degradation, taint; sullying, besmirchment: Sodom and Gomorrah were destroyed along with their filth. 3 indecency, obscenity, smut, pornography, corruption, nastiness, vulgarity, grossness: The censors forbade the showing of films with any hint of filth.
final adj. 1 ending, concluding, terminating, finishing, closing, last, terminal, ultimate, end: The final sentence needs rewriting. 2 conclusive, decisive, unalterable, irreversible, irrevocable, incontrovertible, irrefutable, indisputable, unchangeable, immutable, definitive; settled, fixed, absolute, certain, sure: Those are my final words on the subject. We made a final series of measurements.
finalize v. conclude, settle, complete, decide, Colloq wrap up, clinch, sew up: We finalized the agreement yesterday by signing the contract.
finance n. 1 resource(s), banking, accounting, economics, money (management), business, commerce, (financial) affairs, investment: Bendick is the officer in charge of finance for the company. 2 finances. capital, money, cash, funds, resources, assets, holdings, wealth, wherewithal: Have you the finances needed to buy the house? --v. 3 fund, subvene, invest in, back, capitalize, underwrite, subsidize, pay for, Colloq US bankroll: The new enterprise is being financed entirely by small investors.
financier n. capitalist, banker, plutocrat, investor, backer, US money-man, Colloq angel: The financiers suggest switching investment from shares to bonds.
finding n. 1 discovery, find: The findings from Pompeii are in the Museum of Portici. 2 judgement, decree, verdict, decision, determination, pronouncement, declaration, conclusion: The findings of the Law Lords are final.
fine n. 1 penalty, charge, fee, mulct, forfeit, amercement; forfeiture: He was unable to pay the parking fine. --v. 2 penalize, charge, mulct, amerce: She was fined for parking at a bus stop.
finesse n. 1 artfulness, subtlety, cunning, craftiness, cleverness, strategy, shrewdness, skill, style, dash, lan, panache, knack, skilfulness, talent, adroitness, expertness, expertise, adeptness, proficiency, ability, facility: I admire the finesse with which she persuaded him to give the painting to the museum. 2 trick, artifice, stratagem, wile, ruse, scheme, machination, intrigue, device, expedient, manoeuvre, deception, deceit: He used every finesse in the book to get her to work for him. 3 tact, diplomacy, discretion, grace, taste, delicacy, polish, refinement, elegance: With infinite finesse, Lord Lacey suggested that the duchess might like to stay the night. --v. 4 manoeuvre, manipulate, bluff, trick, delude, deceive, fool, outwit, hoodwink, Colloq finagle, Slang con: She was finessed into making him heir to her fortune.
finicky adj. 1 finical, fussy, fastidious, critical, difficult, meticulous, hard to please, (over-)delicate, (over-)dainty, (over-)particular, over-nice, over-precise, niminy-piminy, punctilious, (over-)scrupulous, Colloq pernickety or US also persnickety, choosy, nit-picking, picky: No one can work for him - he's too finicky. 2 fussy, elaborate, detailed, fine, delicate: Notice the tiny, finicky engraving on this watch-case.
finite adj. limited, bounded, bound, restricted, delimited, numerable, countable: It has been shown that there are a finite number of grains of sand in the universe.
firm adj. 1 compact, solid, dense, compressed, condensed, concentrated, rigid, stiff, hard, unyielding, inflexible, inelastic: I prefer a firm mattress. 2 stable, fixed, fast, secure, steady, solid, stationary, anchored, moored, unmovable, immovable: This pole is firmer than that one. 3 steady, strong, sturdy, tight, unwavering, unshakable or unshakeable, unswerving: What we need is a firm hand at the controls. 4 resolute, determined, dogged, definite, resolved, positive, decisive, decided, set on or upon, steadfast, constant, unflinching, staunch, unshaken, unshakeable or unshakable, immovable, inflexible, rigid, unwavering, undeviating, unchanging, unchangeable, obstinate, obdurate, stubborn, strict, unyielding, unbending, unalterable: Father was firm about my not staying out past midnight. --v. 5 Often firm up. consolidate, establish, settle (down), solidify, resolve, determine, set up: We firmed up the terms of the contract. Sugar prices firmed today. --n. 6 company, organization, corporation, limited company, public limited company, plc, partnership, proprietorship, business, enterprise, concern, house, conglomerate, multinational (company), cartel, Colloq outfit; US jargon CIA, Central Intelligence Agency: He works for a firm in the City.
firmly adv. 1 solidly, strongly, securely, tightly, rigidly, fast, immovably: The column is set firmly into the concrete. 2 resolutely, steadfastly, determinedly, staunchly, unwaveringly, decisively, unhesitatingly, constantly: Jacquelyn firmly supports John in anything he says.
first-rate adj. first-class, high-grade, prime, excellent, superior, superb, great, remarkable, admirable, fine, exceptional, outstanding, extraordinary, unparalleled, matchless, unsurpassed, Colloq A-1 or A-one, top-notch, tiptop, crack, top, ace, Brit whiz-bang or whizz-bang, wizard: Sarah is a first-rate pianist.
fishy adj. 1 piscine, fishlike, piscatory, piscatorial: On the fishmonger's slab lay an array of fishy offerings, only a few of which I could recognize. 2 dubious, doubtful, questionable, unlikely, far-fetched, suspicious, not kosher, peculiar, odd, queer, strange, suspect, improbable, implausible, Colloq shady, funny: There is something fishy about this deal.
fit n. 1 attack, seizure, convulsion, spasm, spell, paroxysm, bout, throe: She has periodic fits of severe depression. 2 outburst, outbreak, paroxysm, spell, period: Occasionally, Gurning would go into a fit of hysterical laughter. 3 tantrum; eruption, explosion: She throws a fit if I so much as mention Maria's name. 4 by fits and starts. sporadically, occasionally, fitfully, spasmodically, intermittently, erratically, haphazardly, now and then, irregularly, unsystematically; unreliably: The fridge works only by fits and starts.
fitness n. 1 aptness, appropriateness, suitability, suitableness, competence, pertinence, seemliness; eligibility, adequacy, qualification(s): There is some doubt about Henryson's fitness as a leader. 2 health, healthiness, (good) (physical) condition, vigour, well-being, (good) shape, (fine) fettle, tone, wholesomeness, salubriousness or salubrity: Tony is a fanatic about physical fitness and exercises daily.
fitting adj. 1 fit, befitting, suitable, appropriate, meet, becoming, proper, comme il faut, seemly, apt, apropos, apposite, germane, relevant: Is it fitting to send flowers? It was a fitting end to the story. --n. 2 fittings. fitments, attachments, accessories, elements, pieces, parts, units, fixtures; appointments, extras, installations, furnishings, trappings, furniture, equipment, accoutrements, paraphernalia, trimmings: Gold-plated bathroom fittings are available at extra cost.
fixation n. mania, obsession, compulsion, fixed idea, ide fixe, fetish, monomania, preoccupation, infatuation, Colloq hang-up, thing, kick: He has a health-food fixation.
fixture n. 1 meet, meeting, event, match, occasion, occurrence: The Davis Cup tennis championship is an annual fixture. 2 appliance, accessory, fitting, equipment, apparatus, device, instrument, tool, gadget, contrivance, appendage, fitment: The landlord forbids the removal of any fixture.
fizzle v. 1 fizz: This headache powder makes the water fizzle. 2 Often, fizzle out. die (out or away), fizz out, expire, peter out, come to nothing or naught, fail, fall through, miscarry, abort, come to grief, misfire, collapse, cave in: Her grandiose plans for staging an extravaganza quickly fizzled out.
flag n. 1 banner, ensign, standard, pennant, banneret, pennon, streamer, bunting, jack, gonfalon, vexillum: Our flag was raised over the fort. --v. 2 Often flag down. warn, signal, hail, inform, stop: A workman flagged us down because the bridge was out. 3 mark, tag, label, tab, identify, Brit tick (off), US and Canadian check (off): Flag the supplies you need that are listed here.
flagrant adj. blatant, brazen, bold, barefaced, audacious, arrant, glaring, outrageous, shocking, shameless, scandalous, atrocious, infamous, notorious, defiant, egregious, obvious, conspicuous, open, complete, out-and-out, utter, flagitious, monstrous, heinous, cruel, villainous, treacherous, nefarious, awful, gross, rank, inconsiderate, scornful, contemptuous; reprehensible; contemptible: Speeding shows a flagrant disregard for the safety of others.
flak n. flack, criticism, disapproval, censure, abuse, blame, aspersion, complaint(s), disapprobation, condemnation, Colloq brickbats: He took a lot of flak from the press for his comments.
flamboyant adj. 1 elaborate, ornamented, ornate, decorated, embellished, baroque, rococo, florid: We chose a flamboyant wallpaper with purple peacocks. 2 extravagant, ostentatious, showy, gaudy, flashy, dazzling, brilliant, splendid, dashing, rakish, swashbuckling, jaunty; high, wide, and handsome: With a flamboyant display of swordsmanship, d'Artagnan dispatched his attacker.
flaming adj. obvious, conspicuous, blatant, flagrant, egregious, extravagant, Slang bloody, bleeding, blasted, damned, blooming: That flaming idiot was appointed to the Ministry of Defence!
flank n. 1 side, quarter; loin, haunch: The enemy was about to attack our flank. The pony drew back with trembling flanks. --v. 2 edge, border, line: Armed guards flanked the entrance. 3 skirt, outmanoeuvre, outflank, circle, go (a)round: They have enough troops to flank our forces to the east.
flap v. 1 slap, slat, beat, flail, wave, wag, waggle, flutter, thresh, thrash, oscillate, vibrate: An ornithopter is an aeroplane that flaps its wings like a bird. The Union Jack was flapping in the breeze. --n. 2 flapping, beat, wave, wag, waggle, flutter, oscillation: With a flap of its wings, the bird flew away. 3 fold, fly, lappet, lap, tail, tab: Leave a flap of cloth to cover the pocket. 4 upset, agitation, to-do, ado, commotion, panic, flurry, fuss, distress, Colloq state, tizzy, sweat, Brit kerfuffle: She's in a flap about what to wear to the dance. 5 quarrel, argument, dispute: There was a big flap over which car model to buy.
flash n. 1 blaze, flame, flare, burst, dazzle, spark, sparkle, coruscation, fulguration, glitter, twinkle, twinkling, flicker, flickering, scintilla, scintillation, glint, shimmer, glimmer, gleam, beam, ray, shaft: There was a blinding flash of blue light and the little man was gone. 2 (sudden or momentary) display, stroke, show, manifestation, outburst, outbreak, sign, indication, exhibition; touch, hint, suggestion: She has occasional flashes of insight bordering on genius. 3 moment, (split) second, instant, twinkling (of an eye), trice, minute, Colloq two shakes (of a lamb's tail), jiffy, shake, before you can say 'Jack Robinson': In a flash he was at her side. --v. 4 burn, blaze, flame, flare, burst (out), dazzle, spark, sparkle, coruscate, fulgurate, glitter, twinkle, flicker, scintillate, shimmer, glimmer, gleam, beam, glare, shine: The light flashed every eight seconds. 5 race, speed, dash, streak, flick, tear, rush, hurry, hasten, fly, zoom, shoot, bolt, whistle; run, sprint, dart, scuttle, scamper, Colloq scoot, skedaddle, take off, whiz or whizz: The train flashed by, doing about 100. --adj. 6 dazzling, showy, ostentatious, smart, chic, Colloq swish, classy, ritzy, snazzy: Barbara's new car looks very flash. 7 See flashy, 1.
flat adj. 1 level, horizontal, even, smooth, plane, unbroken, uninterrupted: I looked out over the flat surface of the frozen bay. 2 prostrate, prone, supine, lying (down), stretched out, recumbent, outstretched, reclining, spread-eagle(d), spread out, outspread: I lay flat on my back staring up at the sky. 3 collapsed, levelled, overthrown, laid low: The air raid had left all the buildings completely flat. 4 downright, outright, unqualified, unreserved, unconditional, absolute, categorical, explicit, unconditional, definite, firm, positive, out-and-out, unequivocal, peremptory, unambiguous, unmistakable, direct, complete, total: The request for clemency was met with the judge's flat refusal. 5 featureless, monotonous, dull, dead, uninteresting, unexciting, vapid, bland, empty, two-dimensional, insipid, boring, tiresome, lifeless, spiritless, lacklustre, prosaic, stale, tired, dry, jejune: The critics wrote that she turned in a very flat performance. 6 deflated, collapsed, punctured, ruptured, blown out: We had a flat tyre on the way. 7 unchangeable, unchanging, invariable, unvaried, unvarying, standard, fixed, unmodified, unmodifiable, Colloq US cookie-cutter: They charge the same flat rate for children, the elderly, and all between. 8 dead, insipid, stale, tasteless, flavourless, unpalatable; decarbonated, non-effervescent: My beer has gone flat. 9 exact, precise: It's a flat ten minutes from here to the railway station. 10 definite, certain, sure, irrevocable: I said I'm not going, and that's flat. 11 dull, slow, sluggish, inactive, depressed: Business has been a bit flat since Christmas. 12 dull, mat or matt or matte, unshiny, non-gloss(y), non-reflective, non-glare, unpolished: The table looks better with a flat finish. 13 lacking perspective, two-dimensional, lifeless, unrealistic: Some of his paintings seem pretty flat to me. --n. 14 Often, flats. a US low shoes, loafers, sandals, Colloq flatties: Cynthia said that wearing flats makes her feet hurt. b lowland(s), plain(s), tundra, steppe(s), prairie(s), savannah or savanna, heath, moor, pampas; mud-flat(s); shallow(s), shoal, strand; marsh, bog, fen, swamp: Before us was a large flat of barren ground. 15 rooms, suite, apartment: How can you afford to keep a flat in London? --adv. 16 absolutely, completely, categorically, utterly, wholly, uncompromisingly, irrevocably, positively, definitely, directly; exactly, precisely, flatly: He has come out flat in favour of the status quo. When he started drinking, she left him flat. 17 flat out. a at maximum or top or full or breakneck speed, speedily, quickly, apace, on the run, rapidly, swiftly, at full speed or gallop, post-haste, hell for leather, like a bat out of hell, like a shot, like (greased) lightning, like the wind: Someone shouted 'Fire!' and we headed flat out for the exits. b flatly, unhesitatingly, directly, at once, immediately, forthwith, without delay; plainly, openly, baldly, brazenly, brashly: He asked to borrow some money and she told him 'No', flat out. --n. 18 room(s), flat, suite (of rooms), chambers, tenement; garden flat, maisonette, penthouse, studio, Brit bedsitter, bedsit; accommodation, living quarters, Colloq Brit digs , US and Canadian apartment, furnished room, walk-up, duplex, triplex, garden apartment: We rented a two-bedroom flat in a good neighbourhood.
flatter v. 1 butter up, play up to, compliment, praise, fawn (on or upon), toady to, truckle to, court, curry favour with, Colloq flannel, soft-soap, oil; Slang shine or suck up to, boot-lick, Taboo kiss (someone's) arse, brown-nose: Flattering the boss won't get you a salary increase. 2 enhance, complement, suit, show to advantage: That colour flatters her complexion. 3 cajole, wheedle, coax, inveigle, beguile, sweet-talk: He was flattered into signing that contract.
flattering adj. 1 complimentary, becoming, kind, enhancing: That is quite a flattering portrait of Dorian. 2 adulatory, laudatory, gratifying, fulsome, honeyed, sugary, fawning, ingratiating, unctuous, slimy, Chiefly Brit smarmy: Authors once wrote the most flattering dedications to their patrons.
flaunt v. display, show (off), parade, flourish, exhibit, sport, disport, spotlight: They were like all the other nouveaux riches who flaunt their wealth in the stylish continental resorts.
flaw n. 1 fault, defect, imperfection, error, mistake, blemish, blot, stain, taint, (black) mark, damage, disfigurement, failing, weakness, weak spot; loophole: Flaws in the casting give this bell a dull sound. I can see flaws in your argument. 2 crack, break, breach, chink, chip, fracture, rupture, fissure, cleft, split, slit, cut, gash, rent, rift, tear, rip, puncture, hole, perforation: The tiniest flaw may reduce the value of a pot to a collector. --v. 3 damage, harm, spoil, ruin, mark, weaken, disfigure: Careless workmanship has flawed many of the objects they produced. 4 discredit, stigmatize, damage, hurt, harm; taint, mar, stain, blot: Her reputation has already been flawed.
flawless adj. 1 perfect, pristine, pure, uncorrupted, chaste, virgin, intact, whole, clean, immaculate, unsullied, unspoilt, unsoiled, impeccable, unblemished, faultless, undamaged, unimpaired, spotless, untarnished: Two flawless artefacts were found in the tomb. Many envied her flawless reputation. 2 undeniable, unassailable, unimpeachable, unquestionable, irrefutable, foolproof, sound, demonstrable: The prosecutor's evidence appears to be flawless.
flee v. 1 quit, run away or off, escape, get away, fly, take flight, bolt, go (away), decamp, abscond, seek safety, avoid, make off, make an exit, make (good) one's escape, make a (clean) getaway, beat a (hasty) retreat, take to one's heels, show a clean pair of heels, turn tail, make tracks, make a run for it, cut and run, vanish, disappear, Brit levant, Colloq take off, scoot, make oneself scarce, beat it, clear out, fly the coop, skedaddle, scram, Brit scarper, Australian and New Zealand shoot through, US and Canadian take a (run-out) powder, skip (town), cut out, hightail it, Old-fashioned skiddoo; Slang split, Brit bugger off, do a moonlight flit, do a bunk, US and Canadian vamoose, lam out, take it on the lam, blow, bail out: He fled the town and was never seen again. When they saw what they had done, they fled. She fled to Brazil to avoid the tax authorities. 2 avoid, evade, shun, escape from, eschew: She fled the responsibilities of caring for her children.
fleet n. armada, flotilla, navy, naval (task) force, task force, squadron, convoy, division: A fleet of submarines was sent to harass shipping in the Atlantic.
fleeting adj. transitory, fugitive, transient, temporary, passing, ephemeral, fugacious, evanescent, momentary, short-lived, fly-by-night, short, brief: I caught only a fleeting glimpse of the car as it sped by.
flex n. 1 wire, lead, cord, cable, extension: Replace this flex before you have a short circuit. --v. 2 bend, give, stretch, curve: The plastic tube can be flexed many times without breaking. 3 exercise, tense, tighten, contract: He flexed his muscles before lifting the weight.
flexible adj. 1 pliable, pliant, elastic, resilient, supple, bendable, limber, lithe, stretchy, stretchable, springy, extensible or extensile, ductile, flexile, tensile, yielding, willowy: The foil is a thin, flexible duelling sword. 2 modifiable, adaptable, conformable, compliant, malleable, obedient, tractable, manageable, cooperative, amenable, persuadable or persuasible: English seems to be an infinitely flexible language. Nicole is flexible in her attitude towards politics. 3 easy, facile, submissive, complaisant, docile: Discipline at the school might be a little too flexible.
flight n. 1 flying, soaring, winging, excursion: The flight above the mountains was exhilarating. He is subject to wild flights of the imagination. 2 (air) voyage or journey or trip: We had a fine flight from New Delhi. 3 aeroplane, airliner, plane, aircraft: Our flight was delayed in Istanbul. 4 flock, swarm, cloud, covey (of grouse or partridge), bevy (of quail), skein (of geese), exaltation (of larks): A flight of migrating birds passed overhead. 5 feather: The flights on this dart are broken.
flighty adj. 1 fickle, frivolous, inconstant, capricious, fanciful, changeable, variable, mercurial, skittish, volatile, unstable, unsteady, giddy, wild: These flighty girls never stay in a job more than a month. 2 irresponsible, light-headed, rattle-brained, silly, hare-brained, dizzy, crazy, mad, reckless, thoughtless, Colloq nutty, screwy, dotty, dippy: It was flighty of Caroline to pour the brandy into the well.
flinch v. wince, draw back, withdraw, cower, cringe, recoil, start, quail, blench, shrink (from), shy (away) (from), dodge, duck: Each time he raised the whip, I flinched.
flip v. 1 toss, flick, snap, flop, turn, twist, spin: Flip a coin to see who goes first. 2 anger, become angry or furious, go mad, go crazy, go berserk, US also flip out, Colloq go off the deep end, lose one's cool, Slang flip one's lid or Brit top, Brit freak, US freak out, lose it: Father flipped when I said I was quitting college.
flippant adj. 1 frivolous, facetious, light-hearted, jocular, offhand(ed), unserious, shallow, thoughtless, superficial; supercilious, belittling, scornful, dismissive: I don't appreciate your flippant remarks when I'm trying to be serious. 2 disrespectful, impudent, impertinent, irreverent, saucy, rude, pert, discourteous, brazen, brash, insolent, Colloq cheeky, flip: He disapproves of Charles's flippant attitude towards the royal family.
flirtatious adj. coquettish, vampish, seductive, flirty, coy, philandering, provocative, enticing, alluring, amorous, come-hither: They exchanged many flirtatious looks across the table.
float v. 1 hover, poise, bob, waft, be suspended, hang; sail, drift, glide, swim: In the clear Caribbean waters, the boat seemed to float in mid-air. 2 launch, establish, set up, organize, found, initiate, get going or moving: The financiers are trying to float a new company. 3 negotiate, arrange, transact, bring or carry off, get, effect, consummate, Colloq pull off, swing: Were you able to float a loan on your house? --n. 4 raft, Brit platform: I can swim out to the float. 5 buoy; pontoon: The bridge is supported by floats. 6 (parade) exhibit or display: Our parade float won first prize.
flog v. 1 whip, lash, horsewhip, strap, flagellate, flay, scourge, thrash, thresh, beat; chastise, castigate, punish: He will be flogged, then drawn and quartered. He was flogged for stealing a loaf of bread. 2 sell; promote, publicize: Her latest job is flogging encyclopedias door-to-door.
floor n. 1 flooring, parquet, boarding, planking, Nautical or colloq deck: The floor is mopped once a week. 2 storey, level; deck: On which floor is your flat? 3 minimum, bottom, base, lower limit, lowest (level): Owing to inflation, the wage floor was raised. Share prices went through the floor in today's trading. --v. 4 knock over or down, bowl over, prostrate, fell, overthrow, bring down, (make) fall; beat, defeat, conquer, destroy, rout, overwhelm, crush, whip, trounce, thrash, drub, best, worst: The champion was floored by a blow to the head. 5 stump, bewilder, baffle, dumbfound or dumfound, confuse, confound, disconcert, nonplus, perplex, puzzle, astound, astonish, amaze, surprise, shock: Alexandra was floored when she received a gift from her ex-husband.
flounce n. 1 frill, furbelow, peplum, ruffle, ornament, valance, trimming: The dress has decorative flounces round the skirt. --v. 2 fling, toss, bounce, twist, strut, toss, parade, march, storm, stamp, US sashay: She flounced out of the room in high dudgeon.
flourish v. 1 prosper, thrive, grow, develop, luxuriate, bloom, blossom, flower, bear fruit, fructify, boom, burgeon or bourgeon, mature, ripen, increase, succeed, get ahead, do or fare well, make good; go up or rise in the world; Slang go great guns: We understand that Amy's medical practice has flourished. 2 wave, wield, brandish, wag, swing, twirl, flaunt, vaunt, swagger, swish, shake: The band-leader flourished his baton. --n. 3 decoration, embellishment, floridness, floweriness, ornamentation, elaboration, adornment, frill, embroidery, curlicue, furbelow: His signature is characterized by all these flourishes. 4 fanfare, display, show, showiness, dash, gesturing, wave: With a flourish of his hand, the king signalled the tourney to begin.
flout v. deride, scorn, disdain, contemn, spurn, decry, denounce, misprize, blaspheme, depreciate, degrade, abase, belittle, minimize, deprecate, disparage, denigrate, mock, jeer, guy, ridicule, scoff, sneer, gibe or jibe (at), taunt, twit, insult, affront, Archaic fleer; Colloq put down, chaff, rag, knock: When introduced in the sixties, miniskirts brazenly flouted convention.
flower n. 1 blossom, bloom, floret or floweret, bud, Technical efflorescence: He brought me flowers for my birthday. 2 cream, best, pick, lite, crme de la crme, finest, choicest: The flower of the city's youth were put to death by the wicked caliph. --v. 3 blossom, bloom, bud, burgeon or bourgeon, come out, open, unfold, Technical effloresce: The century plant was so called because it was thought to flower only once every hundred years.
fluctuate v. vary, change, alternate, see-saw, swing, vacillate, undulate, waver, oscillate, shift: Prices fluctuate according to supply and demand.
fluency n. articulateness, eloquence, control, command, ease, grace, effortlessness, facility, felicity, smoothness, polish, slickness, glibness, volubility: His extemporaneous speeches are marked by an enviable fluency.
fluff n. 1 down, fuzz, feather(s), thistledown, floss, lint, dust, dust-ball, fuzz ball: Be sure you clean the fluff from under the beds. 2 bit of fluff. poppet, girl (friend), mistress, Slang bit of all right, (bit of) crumpet, (bit of) skirt or stuff, Old-fashioned Brit popsy: Bickerley keeps some fluff on the side. 3 blunder, error, slip, mistake, Colloq howler, Brit bloomer, US and Canadian blooper: They showed a video of the fluffs actors make during recordings. --v. 4 muddle, spoil, ruin, make a mess of, bungle, botch, Colloq foul up, screw up, mess up, US snafu, Slang Brit cock up, balls up, US ball up, Taboo fuck up: I have a funny story about how Barrymore fluffed Hamlet's soliloquy. 5 fluff up. puff up, shake out or up, aerate: He doesn't like the pillows on his bed fluffed up.
fluid n. 1 liquid, solution, liquor, ichor; gas, vapour: It might surprise some to learn that physicists consider gases to be fluids. --adj. 2 liquid, flowing, running, runny, watery, aqueous: Once the metal has become fluid, it is poured into the moulds. 3 changeable, mutable, flexible, adjustable, variable, pliant, unformed, formless, unfixed, unstatic or non-static, plastic, protean, mercurial, mobile, unstable, shifting, uncertain, indefinite, unsettled: The situation is fluid and the decision could go either way.
flummox v. confuse, baffle, perplex, bewilder, confound, throw into confusion, stymie, stump, puzzle, mystify, fox, deceive, hoodwink, nonplus: We were completely flummoxed by the licensing requirements.
flurry n. 1 activity, commotion, ado, to-do, fuss, upset, hubbub, pother, stir, excitement, disturbance, agitation, tumult, whirl, furore, bustle, hurry, hustle, flutter, fluster; burst, outburst; Colloq tizzy: I was happy to leave the worry and flurry of the city. There was a brief flurry of activity at the Stock Exchange today. --v. 2 confuse, bewilder, agitate, put out, disturb, excite, fluster, disconcert, upset, perturb, unsettle, shake (up), Colloq rattle: He was quite flurried by the arrival of the police.
flush adj. 1 (on the same) plane or level (with), even, smooth, flat, square, true, continuous; adjacent, next to: See that the tabletop is flush with the countertop. The mirror should be flush against the wall. 2 full, overflowing, replete, abundant: Turn off the water when it is flush with the top of the basin. 3 solvent, well supplied, comfortable; well-to-do, well off, well-found, wealthy, rich, prosperous, affluent, moneyed, Colloq well-heeled, on Easy Street, in the money, US in the chips; Slang loaded, rolling (in money or it): He's flush enough to take us all out to dinner. --adv. 4 even(ly), square(ly), levelly, plumb, directly: Cut this branch off flush.
flutter v. 1 flap, flop, fluctuate, vacillate, wave, waver, oscillate: The paper streamers fluttered in the breeze. 2 flit, flicker, flitter, hover, dance; fuss: We shall never get done if you keep fluttering about. 3 tremble, shake, quiver, dither, jump, vibrate, twitch: She is fluttering with anticipation waiting for the postman. --n. 4 fluttering, flapping, flopping, fluctuation, fluctuating, vacillation, vacillating, wave, waving, oscillation, oscillating, trembling, quiver, quivering: The slightest flutter of her fan communicates volumes. 5 See fluster, 2.
fly v. 1 take wing, take flight, take to the air, wing, soar, sail, hover; flutter, flit, flap: A stork flew overhead. Daedalus taught Icarus to fly. 2 Also, fly away or off. take flight, depart, leave, flee, decamp, bolt, run away or off, escape, make (good) one's escape, take to one's heels, show a clean pair of heels, rush or nip off or out or away, (make a) run (for it), go or get away or off, abscond, make a getaway, cut and run, beat a (hasty) retreat, take off, scoot, Colloq light out, beat it, clear out or off, skedaddle, scram, US cut out, hightail (it), take it on the lam, take a (run-out) powder, lam out, take to the hills, take to the woods; Slang Brit scarper, bugger off, US vamoose, blow: She flew off before I could get her telephone number. 3 hasten, hurry, rush, run, race, dash, sprint, tear, scamper, scoot, Colloq make tracks: I must fly if I'm to catch the train. 4 pass (by), elapse, go (by), expire, run its course, slip or slide by or away: Time flies quickly when you're having fun. 5 aviate, pilot; jet: Parker flies his own plane. I flew down to Paris with him. 6 fly in the face of. flout, defy, go against, contemn, scorn, scoff at, oppose, go or run counter to, counter, counteract, countervail, countermine, contradict, contravene, thumb one's nose at, Colloq Brit cock a snook at: His actions fly in the face of conventional behaviour. 7 fly off the handle. fly into a rage or fury or temper or passion, lose one's temper, have a fit or tantrum, be fit to be tied, go berserk, go crazy or mad, explode, Colloq lose or blow one's cool, blow one's top, hit or go through the roof, US hit the ceiling, blow one's stack, get worked up (over); Slang blow a fuse or a gasket, flip (one's lid), have a haemorrhage, Brit flip one's top: Rudolf flies off the handle at the slightest provocation. 8 let fly. a throw, toss, cast, hurl, fling, heave, pitch, lob, sling, chuck, shoot, fire (off), let rip, discharge, launch, propel, let go or off: They let fly a volley of arrows. b let go with, let (someone) have it, lash out, vent one's spleen, lose one's temper, burst out or forth, burst into, Colloq pull no punches, tear into: That was the last straw, and she really let fly at him. --n. 9 Often, Brit flies. flap, fly front, Brit zip, US zipper: He was embarrassed to find his flies were open. 10 fly in the ointment. hitch, snag, impediment, obstacle, obstruction, problem, difficulty, drawback, detraction, rub, hindrance, bugbear, bogey, bugaboo, Offensive nigger in the woodpile: The one fly in the ointment is that my mother won't give me permission to go.
foam n. 1 bubbles, froth, spume, lather, suds; effervescence, sparkle, carbonation, fizz: The foam leaves spots when it dries. --v. 2 bubble, froth, spume, lather, suds, soap up: Watch the solution foam when I drop this tablet into it.
focus n. 1 centre, concentration, focal point, heart, core, target, convergence, hub, nave; cynosure: Why should Anita always be the focus of attention? 2 in focus. clear, distinct, well- or sharply defined: With the telescope in focus, you feel as if you can almost touch the distant shore. 3 out of focus. unclear, indistinct, blurred, blurry, fuzzy, woolly: The photos are so out of focus that I can't tell who's who. --v. 4 concentrate, centre, converge, meet, pinpoint, spotlight; bring into focus; Colloq zero in: Without distractions, we can focus on the problem at hand.
fogy n. Also, fogey. Usually, old fogy or fogey. conservative, relic, Colloq fuddy-duddy, fossil, antique, stick-in-the-mud, back number, square: That old fogy still dances the foxtrot.
foil v. thwart, offset, defeat, baffle, balk, parry, frustrate, counter, check, impede, hamper, outwit, circumvent, checkmate, daunt, disconcert, discomfit, disappoint, pull the rug out from under (someone), cut the ground from under someone's feet, nullify, nip in the bud, countervail (against), Brit put a spoke in (someone's) wheel, Colloq clip (someone's) wings, cut (someone) down to size, spoil (someone's) game, Chiefly US and Canadian faze: The villain and his evil plan were again foiled by the arrival of the sheriff.
fold v. 1 bend, ply, double (over or up), overlap, crease, pleat, gather, crimp: Fold the letter before putting it into the envelope. 2 enclose, envelop, enfold, wrap, enwrap, clasp, clip, embrace, hug, gather: He folded her in his arms. 3 give way, collapse, fail, close (up or down), shut down, go out of business, go bankrupt, Colloq go under, go broke, go bust, Brit go to the wall: The company folded and ten employees were made redundant. --n. 4 crease, wrinkle, crinkle, pucker, pleat, gather, crimp, overlap, lap: The folds will remain crisp if you use starch when ironing.
follow v. 1 go or come after or next; go or walk or tread or move behind, bring up the rear, Colloq string or tag along: You go on ahead and I'll follow shortly. Please see the comments that follow. 2 adhere to, cleave to, support, believe in, accept, adopt, conform to, comply with, obey, be guided by, be modelled after or on, observe, heed, mind, go along with, reflect, mirror, echo, imitate, copy, mimic, ape: This newspaper follows strict party policy. 3 attend, accompany, escort, go (along) with; serve: Mary's little lamb followed her everywhere. 4 chase, pursue, dog, hunt (down), stalk, run down, track, trail, tail, trace, shadow: The detective swore to follow him to the ends of the earth. 5 succeed, supersede, step into the shoes of, take the place of, replace, supplant: Who followed Henry VIII on the throne? 6 practise, pursue, engage in, carry on, occupy oneself with, apply or dedicate or devote oneself to, cultivate: After the war he followed a career as a teacher. 7 result from, ensue, issue, flow, arise, develop: The conclusion follows logically from the premise. 8 understand, fathom, comprehend, get, grasp, see, catch, appreciate, take in, keep up with, Colloq dig: Were you able to follow everything in that lecture? 9 watch, be a fan or aficionado of, pursue, take an interest in, keep up with, keep abreast of, cheer or root for, admire: He follows international yacht racing. 10 follow through (on). persist or persevere, continue, perform, conclude, realize, consummate, pursue, carry out, see through, make good, discharge, adhere to, keep: I only hope she follows this through and delivers the goods. 11 follow up (on). a pursue, go after, track, investigate, pursue, check (out), check up (on), inquire, make inquiries, look into: MacGregor is very good at following up on the most obscure references. b pursue, prosecute, reinforce, consolidate, support, buttress, augment, bolster, ensure: The Romans followed up their success with an attack on Olbia.
follow-through n. perseverance, diligence, persistence, steadfastness, endurance, stamina, indefatigableness, sedulousness, sedulity, pursuance, tenacity, resolve, determination, Colloq US stick-to-it-iveness: One needs imagination for new ideas but follow-through to make them succeed.
folly n. 1 foolishness, nonsense, absurdity, daftness, silliness, preposterousness, absurdness, senselessness, fatuousness, fatuity, rashness, stupidity, asininity, inanity, nonsensicalness, idiocy, imbecility, irrationality, lunacy, insanity, madness, craziness, eccentricity, weak-mindedness, feeble-mindedness, simple-mindedness, muddle-headedness, thickheadedness, stolidity, stolidness, obtuseness, brainlessness, Colloq dumbness, dopiness, nuttiness, US and Canadian kookiness: They saw the folly of fighting against such enormous odds. It would be folly to leave in this storm. 2 absurdity, mistake, blunder, error, faux pas, gaffe, Colloq goof, fluff: What follies have been committed in the name of honour!
fond adj. 1 tender, loving, affectionate, warm, adoring, caring: She clasped him in a fond embrace. 2 foolish, bootless, empty, vain, nave: She had fond hopes of his being elected. 3 fond of. partial to, (having a) liking (for), soft on or about, affectionate towards, attached to, having a fancy or taste for, fancying, predisposed or inclined to or towards; addicted to, Colloq hooked on: She is inordinately fond of chocolate.
fondly adv. affectionately, lovingly, tenderly, warmly, adoringly, caressingly: Martin regarded his wife fondly.
fool n. 1 simpleton, ninny, ninny-hammer, nincompoop, ass, jackass, dunce, dolt, halfwit, numskull or numbskull, blockhead, bonehead, pinhead, silly, feather-brain, loon, goose, booby, jay, goon, mooncalf, idiot, ignoramus, dim-wit, nitwit, halfwit, imbecile, moron, clod, clodpole, clodpoll, clodpate, oaf, Psychology retardate, Scots gomerel, Colloq birdbrain, dumb-bell, fat-head, chump, twit, knuckle-head, chucklehead, nit, twerp or twirp, Brit pillock, US and Canadian jerk, retard; Slang sap, dope, Brit git, Australian boofhead: He's such a fool he'll believe anything. 2 (court) jester, clown, comic, comedian or comedienne, entertainer, zany, buffoon, merry andrew, farceur, joker, jokester, droll, Punch, Punchinello, pierrot, harlequin: In Shakespeare's plays, the fool is often the wisest character. 3 butt, dupe, gull, victim, cat's-paw, Colloq chump, greenhorn, (easy) mark, US fall guy; Slang pigeon, sucker, stooge, Brit mug: His co-workers liked to make a fool out of him. --v. 4 trick, deceive, take in, swindle, defraud, hoax, cheat, fleece, cozen, hoodwink, bluff, dupe, gull, humbug, delude, mislead, make a fool of; pull the wool over (someone's) eyes, have (someone) on, pull (someone's) leg, tease, twit, Archaic chouse; Colloq kid, con, snow, do a snow job on, bamboozle, put one or something over on, pull something or a fast one on, Brit twist, Chiefly US and Canadian josh; Slang pluck, Brit nobble: When he said the diamond was fake, he certainly fooled me. I think she was fooling when she said she'd inherited millions. 5 joke, jest, banter, tease, twit, feign, fake, pretend, make believe, Colloq kid: She insists that she is not fooling but dead serious. 6 fool with or around or about (with). play (around or about) (with), toy or trifle (with), mess or fiddle (around or about) (with), monkey (around or about) with, meddle (with), tamper with, fribble (with): Please stop fooling with the dials on the radio. 7 fool around or about. a play or mess around or about, gambol, frolic, romp, cavort: Stop fooling around and get serious. b waste or fritter away or squander or kill time, fribble, loiter, dawdle, idle, Brit potter (about), lark or muck about or around, US putter around or about, Colloq footle: She's always fooling around instead of getting on with her work.
foolish adj. 1 senseless, incautious, imprudent, impolitic, indiscreet, unwise, injudicious, ill-considered, ill-advised, misguided, short-sighted, impetuous, headlong, rash, brash, reckless, hasty, heedless, unwary, foolhardy, thoughtless, mindless: Standing under a tree in a thunderstorm is foolish. 2 nonsensical, stupid, asinine, inane, silly, fatuous, fatuitous, dim-witted, scatterbrained, hare-brained, crazy, mad, insane, demented, irrational, erratic, unstable, crack-brained, feather-brained, bird-brained, simple-minded, light-headed, muddle-headed, numskulled or numbskulled, addle-pated, rattle-brained, bemused, confused, feeble-minded, moronic, idiotic, imbecilic, halfwitted, dull-witted, slow-witted, witless, brainless, empty-headed, blockheaded, boneheaded, thickheaded, obtuse, stolid, Colloq dumb, balmy or Brit barmy, loony, nuts, nutty, batty, dopey or dopy, soft (in the head), dim, thick, dippy, dotty, dizzy, Brit potty, daft, Slang cuckoo, goofy, screwy, wacky: Tracy was foolish to believe him when he said he loved her. 3 preposterous, ridiculous, absurd, irrational, illogical, unreasonable, ludicrous, wild: They have some foolish idea about building a hotel in Antarctica.
footing n. 1 foundation, basis, base, ground(s): The events put our entire relationship on a new footing. 2 standing, status, level, condition, position, terms, state, rank: The two departments are on an equal footing as far as funding is concerned. 3 foothold, toe-hold; balance, stability: She lost her footing on the icy pavement and down she went.
for prep. 1 representing, championing; in favour of, Brit on or US and Canadian also in behalf of, on the side of, in support of, in the service of, as a service to, for the benefit of, pro: Are you for or against the candidate? She did it for herself. 2 in search or quest of, seeking, looking for or after, after, with a view or an eye to: We're just here for the beer. 3 instead of, in place of, representing, as a replacement for, Brit on or US and Canadian in behalf of; in return or exchange for, in compensation or recompense or payment or repayment for, in requital for: I am acting for my father. This cheque is for the toaster. Will you accept nothing for your pains? 4 for the treatment of, as a remedy for, against; for the purpose or object of: This medication is for skin infections only. It's for your own good. 5 for the sake of, Brit on or US and Canadian also in behalf of, in the interest of: Would you really do that for me? 6 in the direction of, to, towards, into: Head for the hills! 7 to save, in the interest or benefit of, for the sake or benefit of, conducive to; because of, on account of, by reason of: Every summer, they went to Carlsbad for their health. She hated him for what he represented. 8 to go to, destined for: I am leaving for Tierra del Fuego tomorrow. 9 suitable or suited for, fit or fitted or fitting for, appropriate for, proper for: I am not sure that this colour is for you. Is it right for me to speak out now? 10 for the duration of; over (the extent of), during, in the course of, throughout, through: She stayed for a week. 11 despite, in spite of, notwithstanding, allowing for: For all his complaining, he seemed satisfied. 12 as for. regarding, in regard to, as regards, respecting, concerning, as far as (something or someone) is concerned: As for Betty, let her do as she likes. --conj. 13 because, since, as, inasmuch as, seeing that, owing or due to the fact that: I was unable to see him, for he was out of the office.
forbidding adj. 1 repellent, repulsive, offensive, odious, abhorrent: In his long cloak and mask, he presented a forbidding appearance. 2 hostile, unfriendly, stern, harsh, menacing, threatening, ominous, dangerous, bad, nasty, ugly, unpleasant: The coast here is rocky and forbidding. The old crone gave him a forbidding look and we cringed.
forced adj. artificial, unnatural, contrived, stilted, calculated, studied, laboured, strained, stiff, false, feigned, fake(d), mannered, affected, self-conscious, Colloq phoney or US also phony: Her forced joviality failed to conceal her contempt for those present.
forcible adj. 1 See forceful, 2. 2 drastic, forceful, violent, aggressive, coercive, severe, stringent: The plan involves the forcible repatriation of refugees.
forecast v. 1 predict, foretell, prophesy, prognosticate, foresee, augur, presage, vaticinate, anticipate; forewarn, calculate: Seers forecast coming events; meteorologists forecast the weather. --n. 2 prediction, prophecy, prognosis, prognostication, foresight, augury, vaticination, anticipation; forewarning, calculation: Have you heard the weather forecast for tomorrow?
foregone adj. Usually in foregone conclusion. assumed, established, pre-established, predetermined, fixed, inevitable, set, accepted, cut and dried: His incarceration for the crime was a foregone conclusion.
foreigner n. alien, non-native, immigrant, newcomer, new arrival, outsider, outlander, stranger: The word xenophobia means 'dread of foreigners'.
foremost adj. 1 first, primary, prime, leading, pre-eminent, supreme; prominent, notable, noteworthy, noted, chief, paramount, main, best, superior: She is one of the foremost eye surgeons in her country. --adv. 2 first, firstly, primarily, primarily, in (the) first place, before anything else: First and foremost, we must consider the matter of safety.
foresee v. presage, foretell, envisage, picture, forecast, predict, prophesy, augur, US envision: I don't foresee any problems.
foresight n. 1 providence, prudence, care, far-sightedness, watchfulness, caution, precaution, long-sightedness, perspicacity, wisdom, sagacity, insight, circumspection: The commander demonstrated foresight in ordering a retreat. 2 prevision, perception, prospect, vision, foreknowledge, prescience; expectation: A little foresight could have prevented the calamity.
forethought n. premeditation, planning, plotting, far-sightedness, long-sightedness: Much forethought went into the assassination scheme.
foreword n. preface, prologue, prelude, prolegomenon, preamble, Literary proem; introduction: He set forth the purpose of the book in the foreword.
forge v. 1 make, construct, fashion, fabricate, manufacture, shape, mould, cast, hammer out: This plant forges heavy steel tools. He forged a new life for himself in the American West. 2 create, invent, conceive (of), coin, devise, think up, frame: I have forged a new plan of escape. 3 counterfeit, copy, reproduce, imitate, falsify, fake, Slang US hang paper: She forged her employer's name on the cheque. The gang was caught because they forged three-pound notes.
forget v. 1 fail or cease to remember or recall or think of, lose, draw a blank: I forgot what I was supposed to buy at the market. 2 leave (behind), omit or neglect (doing or taking): I forgot my umbrella this morning. 3 ignore, dismiss from (one's) mind or thoughts, disregard, overlook, consign to oblivion: Forget the fact that you ever met me.
forgive v. 1 pardon, excuse, allow, make allowance(s) for, indulge, condone, vindicate; overlook, ignore, disregard, pay no attention to, pass over, US slough over: Please forgive my curiosity, but where did you get that hat? 2 clear, acquit, absolve, exculpate, exonerate; spare; Colloq let off: Father, forgive them, for they know not what they do. 3 cancel, waive, abolish, void, nullify, erase, delete; Colloq let off (the hook): Her dream was to awake one day and find all her debts forgiven.
forgiving adj. tolerant, lenient, sparing, forbearing, merciful, compassionate, conciliatory, magnanimous, humane, soft-hearted, clement: In a forgiving mood, the judge gave her a light sentence.
forlorn adj. 1 miserable, wretched, desolate, woebegone, lost, pitiable, pitiful, pathetic, woeful, cheerless, joyless, unhappy, depressed, sad, desolate, disconsolate, gloomy, lugubrious, glum, despondent, dismal, dejected, dispirited, low-spirited, comfortless, down, melancholy, dolorous, sorrowful, mournful, inconsolable: She looked so fragile and forlorn as she struggled to hold back her tears. 2 abandoned, forsaken, deserted, neglected, shunned, outcast, alone, lonely, lonesome, friendless, bereft: We came upon a forlorn little village.
formal adj. 1 standard, conventional, customary, established, prescribed, regular, normal, correct, proper; strict, formulaic, inflexible, punctilious, exacting, unchanging, methodical, orderly, systematic, set, pro forma, ritual, ritualistic, ceremonial, proper, official, routine, fixed, rigid, stiff, stilted, stately, starched, unbending, solemn; confining, straitened, limited; Colloq straight, square: Formal rules of behaviour are observed. 2 explicit, express, definite, spelled out, formalized, express, authorized, official, solemn, legal, lawful: Formal demands have been made for the withdrawal of our ambassador. 3 prim, ceremonious, dignified, stuffy, strait-laced, stiff, precise, exact: He made a formal bow and left our company.
format n. 1 appearance, look(s), aspect, layout, plan, design, style, form, dimension(s), shape, size: In its present format, the magazine resembles an academic journal. 2 composition, content(s), make-up, constitution, arrangement, plan, organization, order, set-up: Her TV programme has the format of a chat show.
former adj. 1 previous, earlier, prior, ex-, one-time, preceding, erstwhile, late, latest, last, recent, ci-devant, quondam, Archaic whilom: I ran into a former girl-friend at the art show. 2 old, past, bygone; ancient, (pre)historic, departed, antediluvian: In former times, one could demand - and get decent service.
formidable adj. 1 alarming, appalling, dreadful, frightful, awesome, awe-inspiring, menacing, horrifying, frightening, intimidating, daunting, petrifying, terrifying: A formidable, fire-breathing dragon blocked our exit. 2 terrific, fantastic, unbelievable, incredible, impressive, prodigious, mind-boggling, awesome, Colloq mind-blowing, freaky: They are a formidable talent and will sell a million records this year. 3 arduous, indomitable, overwhelming, staggering, powerful, mighty, difficult, challenging, burdensome, onerous: She has formidable obstacles to overcome before becoming a doctor.
formulate v. 1 systematize, codify, define, specify, articulate, particularize, denote: You must try to formulate your ideas more clearly. 2 devise, originate, create, think up or of, dream up, conceive, concoct, invent, improvise, Colloq cook up: I have formulated a plan in my mind to deal with the problem. 3 develop, forge, evolve, work out, design, map out, block out, draw up: You have three days to formulate a workable procedure.
forte n. talent, strong point, gift, speciality, strength, aptitude, genius, Colloq long suit: His forte is carving ivory miniatures.
forthright adj. straightforward, direct, blunt, candid, frank, above-board, unambiguous, unequivocal, open, outspoken, uninhibited, unreserved, unconstrained, unrestrained: She has always been forthright and honest in her dealings with me.
fortitude n. strength, mettle, backbone, courage, nerve, resolution, resoluteness, perseverance, endurance, tenacity, pertinacity, grit, determination, will-power, Colloq guts: His encouragement gave me the fortitude to carry on.
fortune n. 1 position, worth, means, assets, holdings, wealth, property, estate, possessions; wealth, riches, affluence, opulence, treasure, money, prosperity: Each member is liable to the full extent of his fortune. He acquired his fortune from oil. 2 luck, chance, fortuity; lot, fate, kismet, destiny, karma; future; US happenstance: It was just fortune that put me in the right place at the right time. She'll tell your fortune if you cross her palm with silver. 3 Usually, fortunes. circumstance(s), experience(s), adventures, expectation(s), lot: My fortunes of late have been poor.
forward adj. 1 advance, leading, foremost, front, head, first: The forward contingents of the army moved into the town. 2 bold, pert, impudent, brash, insolent, impertinent, disrespectful, brazen, audacious, rash, unashamed, unabashed, saucy, flippant, presumptuous, cheeky, Colloq flip, fresh, pushy: It was a bit forward of you to call the chairman by his nickname. 3 (well-)advanced, (well-)developed, progressive, precocious, forward-looking: She was quite a forward girl at fifteen. --adv. 4 forwards, ahead, onward, along; clockwise, deasil: I moved forward to the head of the queue. Set the clock forward an hour tonight. 5 up, out, forth, to the fore, into consideration, into view, into the open, to the surface, on to the table: Cooper brought forward an interesting proposal. --v. 6 advance, further, promote, back, foster, support, aid, assist, help; patronize, encourage, nourish, nurse along: He did his best to forward her career. 7 dispatch or despatch, send, ship, deliver, transmit, express, post, mail, consign, remit; send on: The shipment will be forwarded as soon as payment is received. The post office will forward mail to my new address. 8 speed (up), accelerate, advance, hasten, expedite, hurry, quicken, step up: This mixture is said to forward the flowering of plants.
foul adj. 1 offensive, loathsome, disgusting, obnoxious, revolting, repulsive, repellent, repugnant, sickening, nauseous, nauseating, nasty, beastly, Archaic fulsome: The bartender makes a foul concoction he swears will cure a hangover. 2 filthy, unclean, nasty, polluted, putrid, putrescent, putrefactive or putrefacient, defiled, soiled, spoiled, rotten, decayed, decomposed, rancid, soured, turned, tainted, mouldy, impure, adulterated, contaminated, stale, bad, Brit off: The hamburger place was closed when public health inspectors found foul food in the freezer. 3 smelly, stinking, noisome, fetid or foetid, rank, evil-smelling, foul-smelling, malodorous, musty, mephitic, graveolent: A foul odour emanated from the cabinet. 4 wicked, vile, bad, base, abominable, low, sordid, iniquitous, evil, flagitious, atrocious, monstrous, nefarious, sinful, immoral, amoral, vicious, villainous, scandalous, infamous, dishonourable, shameful, disgraceful, ignominious; detestable: They were finally brought to justice for their foul deeds. 5 dirty, obscene, filthy, profane, scatological, gross, smutty, foul-mouthed, blue, licentious, salacious, lewd, indecent, improper, coarse, uncouth, vulgar, rude, scurrilous, rough, indelicate, immodest, risqu, off colour, suggestive, bawdy, ribald, Rabelaisian, Fescennine, US raw, Slang raunchy: My mother forbids my reading books containing foul language. 6 abusive, offensive, affronting, insulting, disparaging, maligning, thersitical, calumnious or calumniatory, aspersive, slanderous, defamatory, libellous, denigrating, derogatory, deprecatory or deprecative, depreciatory or depreciative, denunciatory or denunciative, derisory, derisive, scornful, belittling, fulminous, objurgatory or objurgative, vituperative, invective: Keep your foul tongue to yourself. 7 dishonest, unfair, unjust, unsportsmanlike, dishonourable, fraudulent, underhand(ed), double-dealing, two-faced, corrupt, venal, dirty, treacherous, perfidious, traitorous, unscrupulous, Colloq crooked, shady, Slang chiefly Brit bent: Thrupp will get his way by fair means or foul. 8 nasty, dangerous, rough, disagreeable, unfavourable, sloppy, stormy, adverse; windy, blustery; snowy, sleety, wet, rainy: We ran into a spot of foul weather at Dover. 9 obstructed, blocked, choked, stopped (up), plugged (up), clogged (up): The drain is foul with all that rubbish. 10 tangled, entangled, caught, ensnared, enmeshed, snarled: A foul anchor is a common nautical symbol. 11 illegal, prohibited, forbidden, interdicted, not fair; dirty: In boxing a hit below the belt is a foul blow. --v. 12 dirty, pollute, sully, befoul, defile, soil, contaminate, adulterate, taint: Effluent from the factory was fouling the river. 13 tangle, entangle, catch, snare, ensnare, enmesh, snag, snarl, jam, twist: We can't hoist the mainsail because the halyard is fouled. 14 disgrace, dishonour, sully, taint, besmirch, defile, soil, stain, smear, tarnish, blacken, denigrate, debase, degrade, abase, demean, disparage, defame, derogate, asperse, devaluate, depreciate, vitiate, belittle, discredit, bring or call into disrepute: That act of treachery will foul the family name for generations. 15 obstruct, block, choke, stop or plug or clog (up): Dead leaves fouled the downpipe. 16 foul up. a See def. 13 mismanage, mishandle, botch, bungle, make a mess (of), mess up, spoil, ruin, Colloq muff, Brit throw a spanner in(to) (the works), US throw a monkey wrench into (the machinery); Slang muck up, goof (up), blow, screw up, louse up, Chiefly Brit bugger (up), US and Canadian snafu: Give him a chance and he's sure to foul up. She fouled up my hi-fi. --n. 17 violation, infringement, infraction, illegality: The Rangers' forward has already been charged with two fouls. --adv. 18 afoul, in conflict, in trouble, in violation: Curshaw has fallen foul of the law again.
found v. 1 establish, originate, institute, set up, organize, inaugurate, start, initiate, create, bring about, develop: The society was founded a hundred years ago. 2 base, ground, establish, set, build; rest: This charity was founded on love and concern for children.
founder n. originator, creator, progenitor, author, framer, father, architect, designer, builder, initiator, establisher, institutor: Today we honour the founder of this great university.
foundling n. orphan, waif; stray, outcast: We are trying to raise money for a hospital for foundlings.
foxy adj. 1 clever, sly, cunning, wily, crafty, tricky, guileful, shifty, devious, slippery, smooth, slick, artful, resourceful, ingenious, calculating, designing, plotting, scheming, disingenuous, knowing, shrewd, sharp, astute, wise; foxlike, vulpine; Colloq cagey or cagy: Be careful dealing with him, for he can be foxy. 2 attractive, alluring, seductive, vampish, Colloq sexy: Margo is a very foxy lady.
fracture n. 1 break, breakage, breaking: An old fracture makes him walk with a limp. 2 break, crack, split, rupture, breach, separation, cleavage, division, rift: We can permit no fracture in the united front we present to the voters. --v. 3 break, rupture, crack, split, breach, separate, cleave: He fractured three vertebrae in the accident.
fragment n. 1 piece, portion, part, chip, shard or sherd, splinter, sliver, scrap, bit, speck, snippet, morsel, crumb, particle, remnant, shred, snatch: A fragment of the airliner was found twenty miles from the crash. 2 fragments. smithereens; debris, Literary disjecta membra: The car was blown into thousands of fragments. I tried to pick up the fragments of my former life. --v. 3 shatter, splinter, break or split (up), explode, disintegrate, come or go to pieces, come apart: I picked up the skull and it fragmented in my fingers.
fragrance n. fragrancy, scent, aroma, smell, odour, redolence, perfume, bouquet, balm: The fragrance of orange blossom filled the room.
frail adj. 1 See fragile. 2 ailing, unwell, ill, sick, sickly, poorly, thin, skinny, slight, puny, scrawny, wasting or fading away, languishing, infirm, feeble; crippled, consumptive, phthisic: She is too frail to see visitors.
frame n. 1 framework, shell, form, skeleton, support, chassis, framing, structure, fabric, scaffolding, construction: We made a frame of sticks over which the canvas was stretched. 2 border, casing, case-mounting, mount, edge, edging; setting: This picture would look best in a gold frame. 3 system, form, pattern, scheme, schema, plan, order, organization, framework, structure, construct, construction, arrangement, blueprint, design, layout, composition, context, make-up, configuration: The proposed new department does not fit into the present frame of the company. 4 physique, build, bone structure, body, skeleton, figure: He has an unusually large frame for a dancer. 5 frame of mind. mood, humour, state, condition, attitude, bent, disposition: I am not in the right frame of mind to put up with your nonsense at the moment. --v. 6 construct, build, put together, assemble, set up, put up, erect, raise, elevate: We framed the entire house in two days. 7 make, fashion, form, mould, carve out, forge, originate, create, devise, compose, formulate, put together, conceive, draw up, draft, shape, block out, give form or shape to; contrive: The founding fathers met to frame a new constitution. 8 enclose, box (in); set off: I like the way you've framed that painting. 9 set up, incriminate (fraudulently), trap, entrap: Did Dr Crippen kill his wife or was he framed?
frantic adj. frenzied, excited, frenetic, nervous, overwrought, excitable, wrought up, distracted, distraught, beside oneself, hysterical, wild, berserk, mad, running amok; upset, agitated, perturbed, at one's wit's end, disconcerted, confused; hectic; Colloq in a state, in a tizzy, up the wall, in a dither, out of one's mind, Chiefly US and Canadian discombobulated: They are frantic because they haven't heard from Edmund in a week.
fraternity n. 1 community, brotherhood, crowd, set, clique, coterie, circle, society, US club: Rumours have been circulating in the academic fraternity for months. 2 brotherliness, kinship, fellowship, camaraderie, sodality, comradeship, friendship, companionship, relatedness, closeness, association, affiliation, solidarity, unity, esprit de corps, clannishness: A sense of fraternity prevents them from betraying one another. 3 company, guild, clan, league, club, union, society, association: She has joined the fraternity of legal clerks.
fraud n. 1 deception, trickery, cheating, sharp practice, chicanery, deceit, swindling, double-dealing, duplicity, artifice, craft, guile, humbug, humbuggery, treachery, Colloq monkey business, funny business, hanky-panky: The company directors have been convicted of fraud. 2 trick, hoax, swindle, deception, cheat, wile, stratagem, dodge, bilk, ruse, sham, fake, subterfuge, Colloq flimflam, Slang gyp, rip-off, scam: The investigation exposed extensive fraud in the handling of local government funds. 3 deceiver, trickster, cheat(er), impostor, swindler, charlatan, humbug, sharper, shark, bilk(er), quack, mountebank, fake(r), pretender, bluff(er), confidence man, inveigler, defrauder; scoundrel, rogue, Archaic knave; Colloq con man or artist, phoney or US also phony, flimflam artist, flimflammer, US and Canadian four-flusher; Slang US barracuda: He is a fraud who extracts protection money from the elderly.
fraught adj. 1 Usually, fraught with. filled or charged or packed with, loaded with, teeming or replete or overflowing with, oversupplied with, abounding or abundant in, attended or accompanied by: The scene was fraught with emotion. 2 tense, taut, stressful, trying, anxious, distressing, distressful, upsetting, nerve-racking or nerve-wracking, fretful, strained, traumatic: Relations between the two countries became even more fraught following the incident.
fray v. shred, wear (thin or threadbare), wear out, rub, abrade, chafe, ravel, unravel, frazzle: He saves his frayed shirts to wear at home.
free adj. 1 at liberty, unfettered, unchained, unshackled, unconfined, untrammelled, unencumbered, unrestrained, unrestricted, unconstrained, uncontrolled, free-born, independent, self-governing, self-governed, self-ruling, autonomous, democratic, sovereign: These people want to be free. It's a free country. 2 liberated, at large, let go, let off, emancipated, delivered, manumitted, set free, unshackled, unfettered, released, freed, loose, out, Colloq sprung, on the loose: After ten years he was free at last. 3 unoccupied, unengaged, at liberty, not busy, available, accessible; unused, vacant, empty, spare, extra, uninhabited, untenanted: Are you free for dinner tonight? Here is a free room we can use for the meeting. 4 cost-free, free of charge, complimentary, gratis, for nothing, without cost (or obligation), unencumbered, Colloq for free, on the house: The food was free but we paid for our drinks. 5 unattached, unfastened, untied, loose: Tie the free end of the rope round your waist. 6 unasked for, unsolicited, gratuitous, unbidden, voluntary, spontaneous, unconditioned, unconditional: Let me give you some free advice. 7 generous, lavish, open, liberal, munificent, unstinting, bountiful, open-handed, unsparing; charitable: Fred is quite free with his donations to good causes. 8 relaxed, casual, informal, free and easy, easy, natural, unceremonious, Colloq laid-back: He is quite free about letting me use his car. 9 open, above-board, honest, direct, outspoken, uninhibited, unconstrained, unrestrained, relaxed: You can be free in your criticism. 10 unhindered, unimpeded, unencumbered, unhampered, unobstructed, allowed, permitted, able, clear, unrestricted, unregulated: She's free to do as she pleases. The two countries have signed a free-trade agreement. 11 free of. rid of, exempt(ed) from, relieved of, safe from, not liable or subject to, immune from, unaffected by, above, without, untouched by: He thinks he is free of her influence. --adv. 12 freely, openly, at will, unrestrictedly, loose; loosely: Our dog runs free on the farm. Let the rope hang free. 13 gratis, at no cost, free of charge, without charge: They give new businesses advice free. --v. 14 set free, set at liberty, enfranchise, release, let go, liberate, let out, let loose, unloose, unchain, unfetter, uncage; emancipate, disenthrall, manumit; pardon, parole, furlough: Bail was paid and we were freed. Lincoln freed the slaves. He was freed after six years in prison. 15 disengage, untie, unbind, loose, unfasten, undo, unshackle, unlock, open, release, disentangle, loosen, detach, extricate: Free the end of that rope. 16 relieve, rid, unburden, disburden, disencumber, unbosom; rescue, redeem: Free yourself of any preconceived notions on the subject.
freely adv. 1 candidly, frankly, openly, unreservedly, without reserve, unrestrainedly, without restraint, unconstrainedly, without constraint, unceremoniously, plainly: Please speak freely. 2 willingly, spontaneously, readily, voluntarily, on (one's) own, independently, of (one's) own accord, of (one's) own volition or free will: I didn't send for her - she came to me freely. 3 unrestrainedly, unrestrictedly, without restriction, without let or hindrance, without interference: He was allowed to move freely about the island. 4 liberally, lavishly, unreservedly, generously, unstintingly, open-handedly, ungrudgingly, munificently, amply, plentifully, abundantly: He has no money to donate but he gives freely of his time. 5 readily, easily, smoothly, cleanly, unobstructedly: With the obstacle removed, the water ran freely through the pipes.
freight n. 1 transport, transportation, carriage, conveyance, shipping, shipment, freightage, delivery: The charges for freight are included. 2 goods, cargo, tonnage, freightage; load, boatload, shipload, lorry load, haul, consignment, payload: How much freight passes through here?
frequent adj. 1 recurrent, recurring, habitual, regular, familiar, everyday, customary, usual, ordinary, normal, common, repeated, iterative, reiterative, persistent, continuing, continual, constant; many, numerous, countless, innumerable: She was a frequent visitor at our house. She paid us frequent visits. --v. 2 haunt, patronize, visit, resort to, go to or attend regularly, Colloq hang out or around at: Yes, Inspector, I used to frequent the pub called The Saracen's Head.
fresh adj. 1 new, today's, brand-new; (most) recent, late(st): Don't you love the smell of fresh bread? This is the product of fresh research. 2 new, modern, up to date, novel, original, newfangled, unusual, unconventional, different, alternative, unorthodox: We are seeking a fresh approach. 3 raw, inexperienced, untested, unsophisticated, green, untried, unfledged, immature, untrained, nave, callow, (still) wet behind the ears, Brit still in nappies; US still in diapers: These troops are too fresh to send into battle. 4 additional, new, further, renewed, extra, supplementary: We need a fresh supply of paper towels. 5 alert, refreshed, vigorous, energetic, invigorated, spry, lively, full of vim and vigour, fresh as a daisy, keen, bright, brisk, active, Colloq bright-eyed and bushy-tailed: Put the horses through the dressage while they are fresh. 6 wholesome, healthy, well, refreshed, glowing, fair, rosy, ruddy, blooming, flourishing: She came back to work fresh from a week's rest. 7 moderate, brisk, strong; cool, clean, pure, clear, unpolluted: Sailing conditions were ideal: a fresh breeze and good visibility. Open the window for some fresh air. 8 bold, impudent, impertinent, brazen, brassy, forward, disrespectful, saucy, pert, cheeky, presumptuous, insolent, rude, Colloq smart-alecky or smart-aleck, US sassy, flip: That fresh kid called her an old bag.
fret v. 1 worry, be concerned, agonize, lose sleep, be upset or distressed or anxious or disturbed, grieve, brood, whine, fuss, complain, Colloq stew, tear one's hair: Your kitten is safe now, so stop fretting. 2 worry, concern, distress, vex, annoy, irritate, torment, provoke, US rankle: She fretted herself about Henry's health.
friction n. 1 abrasion, rubbing, abrading, chafing, fretting, attrition, scraping, grating, erosion: Friction is always accompanied by heat. 2 disagreement, discord, conflict, contention, dispute, dissension, disharmony, controversy, dissent, bickering, argument, wrangling, ill feeling, ill will, bad blood, animosity, rivalry, hostility, antagonism, strife: Politics have always been a source of friction between them.
friendly adj. 1 amicable, congenial, sociable, companionable, comradely, convivial, familiar, well-disposed, close, on good terms, simpatico, comfortable, at home, neighbourly, clubby, fraternal, brotherly, sisterly, Colloq chummy, pally, thick, Brit matey, US palsy-walsy, buddy-buddy: We've always been friendly with the people next door. 2 amiable, affectionate, loving, demonstrative, cordial, warm-hearted, warm, genial, agreeable, good-natured, pleasant, kind, kindly, kind-hearted, agreeable, affable, approachable, accessible, unreserved, open, Brit clubbable: Clare can be very friendly when she wants to be.
fright n. 1 fear, alarm, terror, dread, horror, panic, trepidation, dismay, consternation, apprehension, Colloq (blue) funk: He almost dies of fright at the sight of blood. 2 scare, shock: Here, sip this brandy; you've had a terrible fright. 3 spectre, monster, eyesore, Colloq sight, mess: He looked a perfect fright when I saw him after the accident.
frightening adj. terrifying, alarming, startling, shocking, petrifying, horrifying, dismaying, appalling, unnerving, dire, distressing, daunting, intimidating, formidable, frightful, fearful, hair-raising, harrowing, dreadful, Colloq scary, spooky: Skydiving can be a frightening experience. The sight of their mangled bodies was frightening.
frightfully adv. awfully, very, extremely; amazingly, surprisingly: We saw a frightfully good play last night.
frill n. 1 trimming, decoration, ornament, furbelow, flounce, ruffle: This dress would be suitable without the frill. 2 ornamentation, frippery, falderal or fal de rol or folderol, frou-frou, showiness, ostentation, embellishment, luxury, trimming, extra, addition, superfluity, gewgaw, (bit of) paraphernalia, Colloq US foofaraw, bells and whistles, Slang jazz: They ordered a computer system that has every imaginable frill.
frisk v. 1 caper, gambol, cavort, frolic, skip, trip, romp, curvet, leap, dance, prance, play, rollick: She was frisking about like a lamb. 2 search, inspect, examine, check (out), go over: At the airport, we were frisked for weapons.
fritter v. fritter away. squander, waste, idle away, misspend, dissipate: Stop frittering away your time watching television. She frittered away every penny of her inheritance.
frolic n. 1 merriment, merrymaking, gaiety, sport, fun (and games), high jinks, jollity, mirth, jollification, festivity, celebration, revelry, play, horseplay, Colloq skylarking, partying: After we won the cup there was great frolic in the town. 2 romp, party, spree, revel, gambol, caper, gambado, antic; escapade, prank: The noise of our frolics echoed across the square. --v. 3 frisk, cavort, caper, skylark, gambol, rollick, romp, cut capers, curvet, play, skip, sport, have fun, Colloq party, make whoopee, horse around or about: Gregory frolics about instead of getting on with his work.
front n. 1 face, faade, facing, fore-part, anterior; obverse: The front of the door has a painting on it. This dress buttons up the front. 2 frontage, forefront: The front of the property measures only 40 feet. 3 beginning, head, fore, vanguard, forefront, van: At the front of the parade marched the mayor. 4 bearing, demeanour, mien, air, face, countenance, faade, mask, expression, show, appearance, aspect, look, exterior: Despite her grief, she put on a brave front at the wake. 5 disguise, cover, guise, mask, cover-up, show, pretext, faade: The restaurant was merely a front for a narcotics operation. 6 movement, organization, league, bloc, party, group, faction, wing: A new popular front was formed out of a coalition of several opposition groups. 7 haughtiness, overconfidence, effrontery: He frightens away potential clients by showing so much front. 8 in front. first, leading, ahead, to the fore, in the forefront, in the vanguard or van, in advance, in the lead, before; winning: In this picture the man in front is my father. My horse was in front all the way. 9 upfront. a See 8, above. b open, straightforward, honest, direct, forthright, frank, candid: Why can't you be upfront instead of conspiring against me? --adj. 10 first, advance, foremost, leading, head; main: The front carriage was smashed in the train wreck. Enter by the front door. --v. 11 overlook, face, look out on or towards, be opposite: Our house fronts the river. The flat fronts on the street. 12 front for. act for, represent; substitute for, replace: I hate formal affairs and hoped that you might front for me.
froth n. 1 foam, spume, suds, lather, bubbles; head: The froth tickles my nose. 2 trivia, rubbish, nonsense, twaddle, babble, gibberish, drivel, Colloq hot air, gas, gab, piffle: His sermons were just so much froth. --v. 3 foam, spume, bubble, fizz, effervesce, aerate: You are supposed to drink the medicine while it is frothing. 4 foam, salivate; lather: He was so angry he began to froth at the mouth.
frugal adj. 1 thrifty, sparing, economic(al), careful, prudent, provident, saving, conservative, conservational, moderate: Mother had to become quite frugal when father fell ill. 2 parsimonious, penurious, penny-pinching, cheese-paring, mean, miserly, stingy, niggardly, tight(-fisted), close(-fisted), hand to mouth: He led a frugal existence on his earnings as an artist. 3 meagre, paltry, poor, skimpy, scant(y), small, negligible, piddling: His frugal meal consisted entirely of bread and water.
fruitful adj. 1 productive, fertile, prolific, fecund; fructiferous, frugiferous, fructuous: The soil in this valley is extremely fruitful. 2 effective, worthwhile, well-spent, profitable, successful, useful, rewarding, advantageous, beneficial, productive, fertile: We had a fruitful meeting and accomplished a great deal. 3 plentiful, abundant, bounteous, bountiful, prolific, plenteous, copious, luxurious, rich, flourishing: We expect another fruitful harvest this year.
fruitless adj. barren, unfruitful, unproductive, worthless, bootless, futile, pointless, useless, vain, idle, unavailing, ineffectual, ineffective, unprofitable, for naught, to no avail, unsuccessful, unrewarding, abortive: Our search for a new manager has so far been fruitless.
fuel n. 1 tinder, combustible, kindling; fossil or nuclear fuel: You must pay a lot for fuel to heat that big house. 2 ammunition, encouragement, stimulus, incitement, provocation: Her teasing him only provided more fuel for his passion. 3 nourishment, nutriment, sustenance, food, nutrition: The body needs more fuel on a cold day. --v. 4 nourish, feed, sustain; stimulate, encourage, incite, provoke, inflame, exacerbate, excite: U-235 is used to fuel the reactor. Frustration fuels the flame of desire.
fulfil v. 1 bring about, achieve, accomplish, bring or carry to completion, carry out, complete, consummate, discharge, live up to, abide by, observe, realize, effect, bring or carry off, carry through, keep, satisfy, do, perform, execute, effectuate, achieve: I trust that you will fulfil all your obligations. Will she ever fulfil her ambition to be a virtuoso pianist? 2 answer, satisfy, meet, implement, look or see to, conform to or with, comply with, obey: This hammer will fulfil my needs for the moment. Will your new assistant be able to fulfil your requirements?
full adj. 1 filled, replete, brimming, brim-full, packed, jam-packed, congested, loaded, bursting, chock-a-block, chock-full or choke-full or chuck-full, jammed, crammed, solid, well supplied, crowded, stuffed; gorged, saturated, sated, satiated: The tank is full of petrol. Her Christmas stocking was full of toys. I'm full; I couldn't manage another bite. 2 complete, thorough, detailed, comprehensive, total, all-inclusive, broad, extensive, all-encompassing, exhaustive, plenary: The police are demanding a full investigation. 3 complete, entire, whole: The recipe calls for a full dozen egg yolks. 4 utmost, greatest, maximum, highest, top; extreme: Full speed ahead. 5 wide, ample, generous, broad, copious, loose(-fitting): The tight bolero jacket is offset by a full skirt. 6 occupied, engrossed, absorbed, immersed, preoccupied, obsessed, consumed, engaged, concerned: She's entirely too full of herself to pay any attention to us. 7 filled or rounded out, round(ish), well-rounded, plump; robust, shapely, well-shaped, curvaceous, buxom, busty, voluptuous, full-bodied, well-proportioned, well-built , Slang stacked, Brit well-stacked, US zaftig, built: His face is rather full, so wrinkles don't show. Her figure is what I'd call full. 8 unrestricted, non-restricted, unconditional, unqualified: Payment of dues entitles you to full membership privileges. 9 sentimental, emotional, overflowing: His heart was so full he could say no more. 10 unobscured, unshaded, undimmed, open, broad, bright, shining, brilliant, dazzling, glaring, intense, blazing, blinding; harsh, vivid, revealing: We emerged into full daylight. In the full light of day, the plan seems unworkable. 11 powerful, resonant, rich, deep, loud: His full bass voice was unmistakable. 12 complete, whole, entire; comprehensive, uncut, unabridged, intact, unshortened, unbowdlerized, uncensored: We were to receive full pay for a half day's work. Is this a full deck of cards? I have a full set of the original engravings. --adv. 13 fully, completely, entirely, wholly, thoroughly, altogether: That is not a full-grown horse. 14 squarely, directly, right, precisely, exactly, bang, Colloq slap, smack: The ball hit him full in the eye. 15 very, perfectly, exceedingly, quite, Slang damned: You know full well why I am here. --n. 16 maximum, greatest degree, fullest: The moon is at its full tonight. 17 in full. completely, fully, entirely, wholly, thoroughly, in its entirety, totally, in toto: Copy this report in full. 18 to the full or fullest. completely, fully, quite, thoroughly, to the utmost, to the greatest or fullest extent; a great deal, greatly, hugely, enormously: We enjoyed our visit to the full.
fume v. 1 seethe, smoulder, chafe, boil, rage, storm, rant, flare up, bluster, lose one's temper, explode, Colloq get steamed (up) (over or about), lose one's cool, flip one's lid, flip (out), fly off the handle, hit the roof, raise the roof, blow one's top or stack, get hot under the collar, blow a gasket, go off the deep end: She was fuming because I was five minutes late. 2 smoke: The mixture fumes if you add these ingredients. --n. 3 Usually, fumes. smoke, vapour, effluvium, gas, exhalation, exhaust; smell, odour, aroma, fragrance, stench, stink, miasma; pollution, smog: The fumes from O C Cabot's cigar spread through the building.
fun n. 1 merriment, merrymaking, gaiety, glee, jollity, mirth, cheer, high spirits, delight, frolic, festivity, high jinks; amusement, diversion, sport, enjoyment, recreation, entertainment, pastime, joy, pleasure, Colloq (making) whoopee: Your party was great fun. We always have fun when we're together. Want to have some fun? 2 tomfoolery, horseplay, joking, playfulness, clowning, pranks, sport, jesting, jocularity, nonsense, fooling around or about, Colloq skylarking: This is no time for fun - we have to catch a train. 3 in or for fun. jokingly, teasingly, in jest, facetiously, with tongue in cheek, playfully, as a lark, for a joke or gag; not seriously: In fun, we told him that he had missed the last ferry. 4 Like fun! Under no circumstances!, No way!, Colloq Like hell!, US No way, Jose!: Like fun will I go swimming in the nude! 5 make fun of. poke fun at, tease, deride, (hold up to) ridicule, scoff at, lampoon, parody, satirize, make sport or game of, taunt, gibe, rag, Colloq kid, rib, Brit send up: Kevin is always making fun of people by imitating them.
functional adj. 1 utilitarian, useful, serviceable, practical, practicable, functioning, working; essential, important, effective: This gear is a functional part, not mere decoration. 2 working, operating, operational, running, going: Is this telephone functional?
fund n. 1 supply, stock, reserve, store, pool, cache, reservoir, repository, mine: Alison is a veritable fund of information about art. 2 Often, funds. money, (hard) cash, ready money, assets, means, wealth, resources, wherewithal, savings, capital, nest egg, endowment, Colloq loot, lucre, pelf, green, bread, dough, Brit ready, readies, lolly, US bucks, scratch: He has the funds to buy out his partners. Have you contributed to the fund for indigent lexicographers? --v. 3 finance, back, capitalize, stake, support, pay for, endow, grant, subsidize: The company has funded a number of new businesses.
funeral n. obsequies, exequies; burial, interment, sepulture, entombment, inhumation; cremation: It is fitting to wear black when attending a funeral.
funny adj. 1 comical, humorous, comic, ludicrous, laughable, ridiculous, risible, waggish, side-splitting, hilarious, uproarious, jocular, jocose, merry, droll, facetious, witty, farcical, slapstick, zany; amusing, entertaining, diverting, Colloq hysterical: A comedian's material may be funny but he relies on timing for much of his effect. 2 peculiar, odd, unusual, curious, strange, mysterious, mystifying, puzzling, queer, weird, bizarre, remarkable, unconventional, eccentric, Slang off-the-wall: She had a funny expression on her face. If you do love me, you have a funny way of showing it.
furnish v. 1 supply, provide, afford, equip, outfit, fit (out or up), rig (out or up), provision, give, stock up, Colloq Brit kit out or up: The trading post furnished what we needed for a month in the wilderness. Can you furnish me with a blanket? 2 decorate, equip: She received a commission to furnish a ten-room house. furniture n. 1 furnishings, household (goods); movables, chattels, paraphernalia, effects, possessions, belongings, Colloq gear, things, stuff, Slang shit: There wasn't any furniture in the room, not even a chair. 2 fittings, fitments, equipment, fixtures, apparatus, devices, tackle, tack, trappings, gear, accoutrements or US also accouterments, accessories, appliances, Colloq Brit clobber: The front door has some fine brass furniture.
furrow n. 1 groove, channel, rut, trench, track, ditch, gutter, trough, fosse, fissure, sulcus, sulcation, flute, score, cut, gash, scratch, line; wrinkle, crease, corrugation, crow's-feet, Technical sulcus: He can't even plough a straight furrow. The furrows in his brow come from worry. --v. 2 groove, channel, flute, score, cut, gash, scratch; plough, harrow: This rock was furrowed by glacial action. 3 wrinkle, crease, corrugate, knit, pucker, crinkle: A frown furrowed his forehead.
furtive adj. 1 secret, private, secretive, clandestine, surreptitious, stealthy, underhand(ed), covert, hidden, conspiratorial, skulking, deceitful, under the table, under the counter, hugger-mugger, Colloq sneaky: She gave me a furtive look to let me know she was on to me. 2 sly, foxy, cunning, crafty, wily, shifty, untrustworthy, Colloq sneaky: His furtive manoeuvres mark him as one not to be trusted.
fuse v. blend, merge, unite, combine, compound, mix, commingle, coalesce, flow or come together, consolidate, amalgamate; melt: The metals fuse at a relatively low temperature.
fussy adj. 1 particular, finicky, finical, dainty, discriminating, difficult, fastidious, exacting, demanding, Colloq picky, choosy, nit-picking, pernickety or US also persnickety: He's so fussy that he'll wear only custom-made shoes. 2 fancy, elaborate, over-decorated, gingerbread, rococo, ornate, detailed, Byzantine: The style is a bit too fussy for my taste.
future n. 1 days or time to come; tomorrow: Who knows what the future may bring? --adj. 2 coming, tomorrow's, later, prospective, following, unborn, subsequent, expected, approaching; to be to come: Future generations will appreciate what we have done here.
gab v. 1 jabber, gabble, chatter, gibber, blather or blether, prate, prattle, blab, gossip, Colloq Brit natter, witter, Slang jaw, yack, US run off at the mouth: Stop gabbing and get on with your work! --n. 2 chatter, chit-chat, prattle, jibber-jabber, jabber, gossip, blarney, blather or blether, tittle-tattle; cackle, moonshine, nonsense, drivel, twaddle, rubbish, gobbledegook or gobbledygook, mumbo-jumbo, poppycock, bunk or bunkum, balderdash, stuff and nonsense, hogwash, eyewash, Colloq piffle, flummery, rot, bull, codswallop, Slang bullshit, horseshit, shit, crap, garbage, Chiefly Brit tosh, balls: He had nothing important to say - just a lot of gab.
gadget n. contrivance, device, appliance, creation, invention, machine, tool, utensil, implement, instrument, mechanism, apparatus, Colloq contraption, widget, thingumabob or thingamabob or thingumbob, thingumajig or thingamajig or thingummy, whatchamacallit, what's-its-name, Brit doodah, US hickey, doodad, doohickey, whosis, whatsis, dingus, Chiefly US and Canadian gismo or gizmo: He invented a gadget for resealing fizzy drink bottles.
gag n. 1 joke, witticism, jest, quip, pun, gibe, Colloq wisecrack, Slang crack: He told some gags but nobody found them funny. 2 practical joke, hoax, prank, trick, Colloq fast one: For a gag, we put a snake in the sergeant's bed.
gain v. 1 get, obtain, acquire, procure, attain, achieve, secure, earn, win, capture, bag, net, harvest, reap, garner, glean, collect, gather, come by, pick up: Any advantage we gain today may be lost tomorrow. 2 make, get, profit, gain ground, earn, benefit, realize, clear, bring in, produce, yield: Have you gained from the transaction? 3 improve, recuperate, progress, rally, get better, advance, gain ground: Her health has gained steadily since the cyst was removed. 4 catch up (to or on or with), approach, get nearer (to), overtake, close with, close in (on), narrow the gap, gain ground: As we came to the finish line, Tom was gaining on me. Though he kept gaining, I won. 5 leave behind, outdistance, draw or pull away (from), widen the gap, get or go or move further or farther ahead, get further or farther away (from), increase the lead: I kept gaining on him till I was a mile ahead. 6 reach, arrive at, get to, come to: After paddling for hours, we finally gained the shore. 7 increase, move ahead, improve, advance, progress, gain ground: Shares gained again on the exchange. --n. 8 profit, advantage, margin, yield, return, revenue, income, dividend, benefit, emolument, payment, pay, money; proceeds, earnings, winnings; Colloq chiefly US take, payout, pay-off: What was your gain on the sale of the house? He has seen gains of 20 per cent on his investment. 9 increase, increment, improvement, rise, addition, enhancement, elevation, augmentation, upward or forward movement, advance, progress: Each month has seen a gain in share prices. 10 acquisition, achievement, attainment: My gain was at the expense of their sacrifice.
gala n. 1 fte or fete, festival, festivity, feast, celebration, event, red-letter day, holiday, holy day, carnival, occasion, happening, event, pageant, party, ball; field-day: The annual gala is planned for Midsummer's Eve. --adj. 2 merry, festive, joyful, joyous, gleeful, jovial, gay, celebratory, jolly, convivial, happy, cheerful, cheery: Her home-coming was a gala occasion.
gall n. 1 bitterness, acerbity, acrimony, harshness, vitriol, asperity, bile, spleen, causticness or causticity, bite, mordacity or mordaciousness, sharpness, rancidness or rancidity; venom, poison, rancour: Once more he experienced the gall of disappointment. 2 impudence, insolence, impertinence, audacity, brashness, brazenness, sauciness, effrontery, temerity, overconfidence, front, Colloq brass, nerve, guts, cheek, lip, crust, sauce, US and Canadian chutzpah, moxie; Slang balls: One student had the gall to suggest that he would be a better teacher than I am.
gallant adj. 1 brave, courageous, bold, valiant, daring, dauntless, intrepid, plucky, fearless, valorous, unafraid, undaunted, manly, manful, plucky, mettlesome, stout-hearted, lion-hearted, heroic, dashing, (high-)spirited: Three gallant soldiers held off the enemy attack. 2 chivalrous, courtly, courteous, polite, attentive, gentlemanly, noble, gracious, considerate, thoughtful, well-bred, mannerly: What man is so gallant today as to give up his seat on a bus to a lady? 3 dignified, elegant, imposing, grand, noble, glorious, fine, splendid, majestic, stately, magnificent: Overwhelmed by four enemy men o' war, the gallant ship sank beneath the waves. --n. 4 champion, hero, knight, cavalier, paladin: Which gallant wears her scarf on his sleeve in today's jousts? 5 lover, Romeo, sweetheart, beloved, paramour, boyfriend, beau, escort, suitor, admirer, Literary swain: In those days, gallants continually sent their ladies gifts and flowers.
galore adv. in abundance, in large quantity or numbers or amounts, in excess, everywhere, aplenty, in profusion: There were prizes galore for everything from swimming to skittles.
game n. 1 amusement, pastime, diversion, distraction, recreation, play; sport: She regards love as just a game. 2 contest, competition, meeting or US also meet, tournament or US also tourney, match, encounter, engagement, event, round; regatta: Would you like to see a football game? The games are held annually. 3 scheme, plan, plot, design, stratagem, strategy, tactic, artifice, trick, device(s), ploy: Aha! I am on to your little game! 4 occupation, line (of work), job, position, field, business, trade, profession, Slang racket: She is in the advertising game. 5 quarry, prey; victim, target: Game has been plentiful this year, especially pheasant and quail. He is fair game for any unscrupulous swindler. 6 play games. dissemble, dissimulate, be deceitful or underhand, misrepresent, pretend, practise deceit or deception, fake, feign: She wasn't serious about selling, she was just playing games. --adj. 7 ready, willing, prepared; plucky or spirited or daring or adventurous enough: She's game for anything: I'm sure she'll jump at the chance of scuba-diving lessons. 8 plucky, spirited, high-spirited, daring, devil-may-care, adventurous, unflinching, courageous, brave, bold, heroic, Colloq nervy, gutsy: Entering the cave to rescue the dog was a game thing for him to do. --v. 9 gamble: He has taken up gaming as a hobby.
gang n. 1 group, band, crowd, company, pack, mob, ring: The police are looking for the gang that robbed the mail train. 2 clique, set, coterie, circle, party, company, team, troupe: A whole gang of my friends came over yesterday evening. --v. 3 gang up (on or against.) conspire or plot against, combine or unite or unify or join (against), league or ally or club or band (against), join forces (against), overwhelm: When they all ganged up on me, I decided to change my mind.
gap n. 1 opening, space, aperture, distance, hole, void, gulf, cavity, break, breach, crevice, chink, crack, split, division, cleft, rift, rip, tear, rent; interruption, interval, lacuna, hiatus, discontinuity, disruption; lull, pause, rest, recess, halt, stop, suspension, delay, wait, intermission, respite: The gap between the walls is just big enough for a child. I can see through a gap in the curtain. There is a gap in his payment record. 2 difference, divergence, disparity, disagreement, inconsistency, discrepancy; division, distinction: A gap exists between your ideas of justice and mine.
garbage n. rubbish, refuse, waste, muck, offal, sweepings, swill, filth, slops, dross, scraps, junk, litter, debris, detritus, Chiefly US and Canadian trash, Slang crap: The garbage in the river is a health hazard.
garish adj. gaudy, flashy, glaring, cheap, tawdry, florid, raffish, vulgar, harsh, loud, meretricious, Brummagem, showy, crude, tasteless, Colloq flash, Slang US glitzy: Their flat is filled with the most garish decorations.
garments n.pl. garb, clothes, clothing, raiment, dress, attire, apparel, costume, outfit, habit, vestments, habiliment; wardrobe; uniform, livery; Colloq duds, rig, togs, Slang rags, threads, gear: All his garments are custom-made in Savile Row.
gash n. 1 cut, slash, wound, score, cleft, incision, laceration, slit, groove, split: The chisel slipped, cutting a deep gash in the table. --v. 2 cut, slash, wound, score, cleave, incise, lacerate, slit, groove, split: I've gashed my hand on a rusty nail.
gate n. 1 gateway, barrier, doorway, door, access, entrance, exit, passage, opening: The garden gate sagged on its hinges. 2 admissions, attendance, crowd, audience, assemblage: We had the biggest gate of the year at yesterday's game.
gathering n. assembly, convocation, convention, congress, assemblage, meeting, get-together, turnout, conclave, rally, aggregation: There is a gathering of the clan once a year.
gauge v. 1 measure, determine, weigh, calculate, compute, reckon, figure, US technical also gage: Try to gauge the height of that building. 2 judge, evaluate, appraise, assess, rate, estimate, guess, US technical also gage: How can we gauge the strength of the opposition? --n. 3 standard, yardstick, criterion, benchmark, basis, measure, norm, model, example, pattern, rule, touchstone, test, guide, guideline, US litmus test, Technical also gage: You cannot use your compulsive work habits as a gauge for others. 4 scope, capacity, amount, extent, measure, size, dimension(s), magnitude, degree, limit: There are a number of narrow-gauge railways in Wales. What will be the gauge of your involvement in the enterprise?
gawk n. 1 oaf, lout, bumpkin, clod, boor, churl, dolt, dunderhead or dunderpate, ninny, ninny-hammer, ignoramus, fool, simpleton, ass, bungler, bumbler, Colloq clodhopper, lummox, Slang chiefly US old-fashioned galoot or galloot, lug: You big gawk, get out of my way! --v. 2 stare, goggle, gape, Colloq rubberneck, Slang Brit gawp or gaup: Stop gawking and help me get him to a hospital.
gaze v. 1 look at or on or upon or over, view, regard, contemplate, stare; wonder, gape: She stood gazing out to sea. I gazed at the screen in disbelief. --n. 2 fixed or steady or intent look, stare, look: His gaze faltered and he averted his eyes.
gem n. 1 gemstone, jewel, stone, precious or semiprecious stone: The crown was set with rubies and other precious gems. 2 ideal, quintessence, perfect example; pearl (of great price), marvel, flower, lite, cream, crme de la crme, pick, nonpareil, treasure, prize, masterpiece, chef-d'oeuvre: This is a perfect gem of a painting. The vale of Grasmere is a gem in the diadem of the Lake District.
generality n. 1 generalization, abstraction, abstract, vague or loose or sweeping or indefinite statement, imprecise or vague notion: His talks are characterized by empty generality, without detailed facts. 2 Often, generalities. principle(s), law(s), abstraction(s), generalization(s), universality or universalities: You have given us the generalities, now we want the particulars.
generate v. 1 produce, create, originate, make, manufacture: At these stations we can generate 1000 megawatts of electricity. 2 spawn, father, sire, bring into being, procreate, breed, beget, engender, propagate: This one fish would generate millions of offspring if all survived. 3 produce, create, give rise to, inspire, whip up, cause, initiate: Her good fortune generated in him a feeling of envy. 4 produce, create, invent, coin, make up, fabricate, fashion, devise, develop, form, forge, mould, contrive, construct, put together: We must generate a new theory to account for these phenomena.
generous adj. 1 bounteous, bountiful, magnanimous, charitable, eleemosynary, philanthropic, lavish, open-handed, free, liberal, unstinting, ungrudging, beneficent, benevolent, big-hearted, munificent: Not everyone who has money is generous with it. 2 magnanimous, benevolent, charitable, unselfish, humanitarian, humane, kindly, noble, high-minded, lofty, good, disinterested, unprejudiced: He was too generous in acknowledging the accomplishments of his political foes. 3 plentiful, full, lavish, overflowing, abundant, bounteous, handsome, copious, ample: They certainly serve generous portions at that restaurant.
genitals n.pl. genitalia, sexual or reproductive organs, sex organs, organs of procreation or generation, private parts, privates: They wore loincloths to cover their genitals.
genre n. kind, sort, type, class, style, brand, character, category, genus, species, variety, fashion: Her paintings are in the classicist genre.
gentle adj. 1 kind, kindly, mild, tender, benign, moderate, easy, quiet, calm, still, temperate, unruffled, untroubled, undisturbed, tranquil, restful, peaceful, pacific, placid, smooth, lenient, patient, indulgent, soothing, thoughtful, gracious, compassionate, humane, tender-hearted, merciful; soft, light, balmy: Amy is very gentle with the patients. A gentle breeze barely stirred the leaves. The gentle waves belied the terror that lurked below. 2 tame, tractable, docile, manageable, controllable; broken: As he's a beginner, he's been given a gentle mare to ride. 3 gradual, easy, moderate: The car rolled down the gentle slope and stopped.
genuine adj. 1 authentic, real, bona fide, veritable, legitimate, true, original, proper, not counterfeit or fake; pukka or pucka: Is that a genuine diamond? I know his feelings for her are genuine. Armstrong is a genuine leader of men. 2 candid, frank, open, sincere, earnest, honest, unfeigned: His art is much more genuine than the pretentious output of his contemporaries.
gesture n. 1 movement, motion, gesticulation, signal, indication, action, Colloq US high sign: She made a gesture of dismissal. 2 formality, move; gambit, ploy; token, indication, symbol: Sending her flowers was a friendly gesture. Their burning the flag was a gesture of defiance. --v. 3 motion, gesticulate, signal, sign, indicate, Colloq US give (someone) the high sign: He gestured for me to step forward.
getaway n. escape, flight, retreat: The prisoners made their getaway in a van. Lady Fenella was so boring I couldn't wait to make my getaway.
get-up n. 1 costume, outfit; rig: He came in a diver's get-up. 2 format, layout, arrangement, structure, look, style: Who is responsible for the magazine's new get-up?
ghastly adj. 1 dreadful, awful, terrible, terrifying, frightful, hideous, horrible, horrendous, horrid, horrifying, grim, grisly, loathsome, gruesome, ugly, repellent, repulsive, shocking, appalling, Colloq gross, scary: He was involved in a ghastly accident. 2 grim, cadaverous, haggard, ashen, wan, pale, pallid, pasty(-faced), drawn, livid, ghostly, spectral, macabre: She looked ghastly after the surgery. 3 awful, bad, terrible, ill, ailing, sick: We felt ghastly after eating the undercooked chicken.
ghostly adj. 1 spectral, ghost-like, wraithlike, phantasmal, phantom, eerie, unreal, unnatural, supernatural, preternatural, unearthly, sinister, strange, uncanny, weird, Colloq spooky, scary, creepy: I heard a ghostly voice calling my name. 2 See ghastly, 2, above.
gibberish n. drivel, tripe, nonsense, rubbish, gibber, prattle, twaddle, gabble, jabber, balderdash, jibber-jabber, blather or blether, Jabberwocky, gobbledegook or gobbledygook, mumbo-jumbo, rodomontade, Gongorism, cackle, chatter, patter, chatter, jargon, babble, claptrap, poppycock, Colloq tripe, codswallop, crap, bunk, piffle, US garbage, horse feathers; Taboo slang balls, bull(shit), US crock (of shit): If one listens to such gibberish long enough, one begins to believe it.
giddy adj. 1 dizzy, faint, unsteady, light-headed, vertiginous, reeling, Colloq woozy: This medication may make you feel a bit giddy. 2 silly, frivolous, scatterbrained, flighty, capricious, irresponsible, erratic, fickle, volatile, impulsive, reckless, whimsical: You can't marry a giddy young girl like Peggy.
gigantic adj. big, large, huge, enormous, massive, giant, colossal, immense, mammoth, tremendous, stupendous, towering, staggering, vast, titanic, gargantuan, elephantine, Cyclopean, Herculean, Brobdingnagian; king-size, extra-large, Colloq jumbo, walloping, whopping, thumping, thundering, strapping, super-duper, US humongous: The gigantic tower, reaching to the heavens, appeared before us.
gimmick n. 1 device, strategy, stratagem, ploy, trick, ruse, wile, subterfuge, manoeuvre, artifice, deception, trap, snare, US hook, Colloq dodge: We need some sort of gimmick to attract buyers. 2 device, contrivance, gadget, invention, Colloq contraption, widget, thingumbob or thingumabob or thingamabob, thingumajig or thingamajig or thingummy, whatchamacallit, what's-its-name, Brit doodah, US doohickey, doodad, hickey, whosis, whatsis, dingus, Rube Goldberg (invention), Chiefly US and Canadian gismo or gizmo: He uses some kind of gimmick to break into cars.
girl n. 1 female, woman, lass, (young) lady, miss, mademoiselle, wench, Frulein, maid, maiden, damsel, demoiselle, Irish colleen, Australian and New Zealand sheila, Colloq chick, filly, gal, Slang bird, frail, skirt, piece, mouse, Brit crumpet, bit of skirt or stuff, Old-fashioned Brit popsy, US dame, broad, (bit of) San Quentin quail or jail-bait: His mother wants to introduce him to a nice girl. 2 girlfriend, sweetheart; betrothed, fiance; mistress, lover, friend, live-in lover, inamorata, tally, US POSSLQ (= 'Person of the Opposite Sex Sharing Living Quarters'), Colloq Brit popsy, Slang moll, US twist, squeeze: She's his girl and she'll stick by him.
gist n. essence, core, heart, substance, point, theme, quintessence, pith, meat, marrow, focus, nub, significance, (main or basic) idea; direction, drift: It will save time if I tell you the gist of the argument.
give and take n. compromise, cooperation, reciprocity, interaction, fair exchange, teamwork, joint effort, synergy: There is a lot of give and take in our relationship - I give and she takes.
glad adj. 1 happy, pleased, contented, gratified, satisfied; delighted, thrilled, joyful, overjoyed, tickled, Colloq tickled pink or to death, pleased as Punch, Slang Brit chuffed: I am genuinely glad to see you. 2 (ready and) willing, happy, keen, eager, (well-)disposed, inclined, ready: I would be glad to help you, madam.
gladly adv. cheerfully, happily, readily, willingly, with pleasure: I'd go with you gladly if I had the time.
glamour n. allure, fascination, charm, attractiveness, brilliance, glitter, attraction, magnetism, charisma, captivation, desirability, appeal, enchantment, bewitchment, witchcraft, sorcery, magic: Who today can match the glamour of the movie stars of the '30s?
glare n. 1 dazzle, brilliance, brightness, splendour, resplendence, radiance, effulgence, lustre, shine, flame, flare, blaze: We had to shade our eyes from the glare. 2 frown, dirty or nasty or black look, scowl, stare, glower, lower or Brit also lour: She shrank from his fierce glare. 3 garishness, gaudiness, floridity or floridness, flashiness, tawdriness, showiness, ostentation, meretriciousness: His writing is filled with the pomp and glare of rhetoric. --v. 4 frown, give a dirty or nasty or black look, scowl, stare, glower, lower or Brit also lour, look daggers (at): She simply glared at him and he withered.
glass n. 1 glassware, crystal: Use the best glass for the party. 2 mirror, looking-glass: He constantly looks at himself in the glass. 3 window, pane, window-pane, plate glass: The children pressed their noses against the glass of the toy shop. 4 tumbler, drinking-glass, beaker, goblet: May I have a glass of beer? 5 barometer: The glass fell as the storm approached. 6 lens, magnifying glass, telescope, spyglass, microscope: Look at this drop of water through the glass. 7 glasses. spectacles, eyeglasses, lorgnon, lorgnette, opera-glasses, binoculars, field-glasses, bifocals, trifocals, goggles, sun-glasses, Colloq specs: These are my reading glasses.
glaze v. 1 varnish, lacquer, shellac, enamel, coat, cover; polish, burnish, shine, gloss: Many of the works of art had been glazed for protection. --n. 2 varnish, lacquer, shellac, enamel, coating, covering; polish, shine, gloss, lustre, patina: The glaze distorts the design beneath.
glee n. delight, exuberance, cheerfulness, high or good spirits, cheer, exhilaration, elation, exultation, joy, happiness, rapture, gladness, felicity, pleasure, joyfulness, merriment, jubilation, joyousness, joviality, jollity, gaiety, mirthfulness; enjoyment, satisfaction, Schadenfreude: We watched with great glee as the villain was thwarted.
glib adj. ready, fluent, smooth, slick, facile, smooth-spoken, smooth-tongued, smooth-talking, fast-talking, fluid, easy, unctuous, suave, nonchalant, superficial: Why must obituary notices always be so glib?
glisten v. shine, reflect, glint, glimmer, gleam, sparkle, glitter, wink, blink; glow, gleam, twinkle: The lamplight glistened on his wet coat. A tear glistened on her cheek.
gloat v. Often, gloat over. exult (in), glory (in), relish (in), revel (in), crow (over or about), delight (in): He is still gloating over the misery he caused her.
globe n. 1 earth, world, planet, Terra: Our family is scattered all round the globe. 2 sphere, ball, orb; globule: On the table was a lamp with a green glass globe.
gloomy adj. 1 shadowy, shaded, shady, murky, dim, dusky, dull, dark, cloudy, overcast, obscure, black, inky, Literary Stygian: It is too gloomy a day to have a picnic. 2 depressed, melancholy, sad, dejected, morose, glum, lugubrious, unhappy, cheerless, dismal, moody, down, downcast, desolate, doleful, sorrowful, crestfallen, chap-fallen, downhearted, forlorn, despondent, miserable, joyless, dispirited, despairing, dreary, sullen, blue, distressed, down in the mouth, in the doldrums, saturnine, Colloq (down) in the dumps: Both of them have been very gloomy since the divorce. 3 depressing, cheerless, dreary, dismal, dispiriting, sad, disheartening: The dcor is much too gloomy for a doctor's waiting-room.
glorify v. 1 elevate, exalt, raise (up), upgrade, promote, advance, boost, enhance, dignify, ennoble, immortalize: Winning first prize glorified his reputation considerably. In her book she glorifies motherhood. These men are glorified by their heroism. 2 canonize, deify, idolize, revere, venerate, sanctify, worship, pay tribute or homage to, ennoble, idealize, apotheosize, eulogize, panegyrize, adore, honour, look up to, celebrate, extol, praise, laud, commend, hail, lionize, applaud, acclaim: The world glorified Lindbergh for the first solo flight across the Atlantic.
glory n. 1 honour, fame, repute, reputation, exaltation, celebrity, renown, eminence, distinction, illustriousness, prestige, dignity, immortality: Our soldiers fought for glory not for gain. Even today we sense the glory that was Rome. 2 honour, veneration, reverence, homage, gratitude, glorification, exaltation, worship, adoration, praise, laudation, thanksgiving; benediction, blessing: Glory be to God in the highest. 3 splendour, pomp, magnificence, grandeur, beauty, brilliance, radiance, effulgence, refulgence, excellence, pageantry, nobility, triumph, greatness: Her photographs depict the Amazonian rain forest in all its glory. 4 aureole, nimbus, halo; crown, circlet, corona: A glory surrounds the saint's head in the painting. --v. 5 revel, relish, delight, exult, pride oneself, crow, rejoice, gloat; show off, boast: She sat by the window, glorying in the magnificence of the scenery.
gloss n. 1 explanation, interpretation, exegesis, explication, definition, elucidation, comment, commentary, annotation, critique, criticism, analysis, footnote; translation: Some editions of Shakespeare give glosses of difficult words and phrases at the foot of each page. --v. 2 comment on or upon, explain, interpret, explicate, define, elucidate, annotate, criticize, analyse, review, US critique; translate: Johnson was not the first to gloss the word 'pastern'. 3 See gloss, 4, above.
glossy adj. 1 shining, shiny, smooth, polished, glazed, lustrous, burnished, smooth, sleek, waxed, glassy, glistening: Our magazine is printed on glossy paper. 2 slick, specious, put-on, artificial, meretricious, contrived, pretended, simulated, feigned, insincere, pseudo, false, unreal; bogus, counterfeit, fraudulent, imitation, Colloq phoney or US also phony: It is only a glossy remake of the original film.
glowing adj. 1 aglow, incandescent, burning, lambent, luminous, candent; smouldering: I stirred the glowing embers. 2 rich, warm, vibrant, bright, brilliant: Banners in glowing colours enlivened the hall. He is in glowing health. 3 laudatory, complimentary, enthusiastic, eulogistic, rhapsodic, favourable, encomiastic, panegyrical: The critics described her performance in glowing terms.
glum adj. gloomy, sullen, morose, dispirited, woebegone, dismal, sad, sulky, dour, moody, sour, crestfallen, doleful, down, low, pessimistic, lugubrious, saturnine: After Irena left, I was feeling rather glum.
glutton n. trencherman, gormandizer, gourmand or gormand, overeater, hog, pig, Grangousier, Colloq greedy-guts, Slang Brit gannet, US chowhound: Like the glutton that he is, he asked for more after eating an enormous meal.
gluttony n. overeating, gormandizing, gormandism or gourmandism, greed, hoggishness, piggishness, rapacity, voraciousness, greediness, voracity, insatiability, edacity, crapulence, crapulousness, intemperance, immoderation, Archaic gulosity: The Bible categorizes gluttony among the seven deadly sins.
gnaw v. 1 chew, nibble, eat, bite, champ: The marks were made by deer gnawing the bark. 2 erode, eat away, corrode, wear down or away, fret, consume, devour: The acid continues to gnaw away at the metal till it is gone. 3 fret, irritate, harry, hector, pester, worry, bother, plague, trouble, torment, torture, distress, badger, harass, haunt, nag, vex, gall, nettle, irk, peeve, annoy: The feeling that something was very wrong continued to gnaw at her.
go-ahead n. 1 permission, approval, leave, authorization, sanction, Colloq say-so, okay or OK, green light, US the nod: I have the go-ahead to proceed with the project. --adj. 2 ambitious, enterprising, progressive, forward-looking, resourceful: The directors, all under thirty, make it a real go-ahead company.
gob n. chunk, piece, blob, lump, gobbet, morsel, fragment, bite: She took a gob of peanut butter and spread it on the bread.
go-between n. intermediary, agent, middleman, medium, mediator, negotiator, messenger, internuncio, liaison; intercessor, interceder: David served as go-between in our negotiations with the rebels.
god n. deity, demigod, demiurge, divinity, spirit, immortal, genius, power, tutelary, numen: Throughout man's sojourn on earth he has worshipped many gods.
godlike adj. 1 divine, godly, sacred, holy, saintly, angelic, seraphic, blest, blessed, sainted: The savages thought her a goddess and treated her with godlike reverence. 2 heavenly, celestial, blissful, rapturous, ecstatic, beatific, ethereal: For a decade, she lived a godlike existence among the savages.
godsend n. gift, blessing, benediction, boon, windfall, bonanza, stroke of (good) fortune, piece or bit of (good) luck: The Red Cross parcels were a godsend to the prisoners of war.
going adj. 1 thriving, successful, succeeding, prosperous, wealthy, affluent, booming, prospering, flourishing, growing: The Davises took over a failing business and turned it into a going concern. 2 current, present, contemporary, active, effective, accepted, prevailing, prevalent, universal, common, usual, customary: What is the going rate for a skilled cabinet-maker?
good adj. 1 agreeable, satisfactory, commendable, acceptable, fair, adequate, admissible, tolerable, all right, passable, Colloq okay or OK: According to the reviews, the new opera is good but not great. 2 admirable, outstanding, first-rate, first-class, fine, superb, superior, tiptop, extraordinary, exemplary, choice, excellent, capital, marvellous, wonderful, splendid, sterling, Colloq super(-duper), great, smashing, A1 or A-1 or A-one, Brit cracking, brilliant, amazing, ace, knockout, brill, fantastic, terrific, unbelievable, groovy, fab, fabulous, crucial, serious, US bad, Old-fashioned Brit tickety-boo, No. Eng. champion, Chiefly US A-OK: I thought that was a really good dinner. 3 correct, proper, decorous, orderly, right, seemly, fit, fitting, suitable, meet, appropriate, allowable, permissible, admissible, passable, satisfactory, tolerable: He should get time off for good behaviour. 4 obedient, well-behaved, proper, well-mannered: Why can't you be a good boy when we go out? 5 moral, high-minded, righteous, noble, wholesome, chaste, pure, honourable, ethical, upstanding, upright, virtuous, worthy, lofty, elevated, saintly, angelic, godly, godlike: Think only good thoughts and still you may not get to heaven. 6 kind, benevolent, beneficent, gracious, gentle, kindly, nice, considerate, friendly, solicitous, good-hearted, sympathetic, benign, charitable, humane, kind-hearted, well-disposed: Her parents have always been good to me. 7 fresh, unspoilt, edible, consumable, palatable: These eggs are good but the milk has gone off. 8 genuine, valid, legitimate, authentic, honest, proper, reliable, secure, dependable, safe, creditable, sound, solid, substantial, well-founded, trustworthy, honest, actual, real; credible, believable, convincing, compelling, cogent: Have you a good reason for saying that? 9 honourable, esteemed, respected, respectable, well-thought-of, reputable, established, solid: They say that he comes from a good family. 10 well-proportioned, shapely, attractive: Yes, I'd say that Marilyn has a good figure. 11 thorough, complete, penetrating, careful: Has she had a good look at the defendant? 12 gifted, talented, competent, capable, skilful, clever, accomplished, proficient, adept, adroit, skilled: Am I a good enough actor to audition for the part? 13 advantageous, propitious, opportune, beneficial, profitable, favourable; safe, secure, reliable, sound, sensible: Are utilities a good investment? Is this a good time to buy shares? 14 healthy, salubrious, salutary, beneficial, wholesome: We'll have to put you on a good diet. 15 best, company, Sunday, special-occasion, most luxurious: Should we use the good glasses tonight? 16 ample, sufficient, adequate, considerable, full, extensive, sizeable, large, substantial: We have a good supply of food available. 17 approving, complimentary, flattering, positive, favourable, enthusiastic, laudatory, eulogistic, encomiastic: His book received a very good review in the Sunday supplement. 18 great, considerable, sizeable, substantial, fair: We are still a good distance away from land. --n. 19 benefit, advantage, profit, use, usefulness, gain, worth, avail: What good does it do to complain? 20 goodness, morality, virtue, merit, righteousness, right, rectitude, worth, probity, virtuousness, integrity, nobility, high-mindedness, honourableness, honesty: The evil that men do lives after them, The good is oft interred with their bones. 21 goods. a possessions, (personal) property, chattels, things, gear, belongings, effects, paraphernalia, movables, stuff: He's gone and he's taken all his goods with him. b merchandise, commodities, wares, stock, produce, tangibles, assets: We shall pay on delivery of the goods. c US and Canadian (incriminating) evidence or proof or information or documentation or facts or data: The police have the goods on the murderer. d fabric, cloth, textile, material, yard goods, piece-goods: My tailor said he had made it from the best goods available. e freight: A goods train had broken down on the line between Oxford and Banbury.
good-for-nothing adj. 1 worthless, useless: 'You are asking too much for that good-for-nothing old lamp', Aladdin told the pedlar. --n. 2 ne'er-do-well, wastrel, waster, idler, loafer, layabout, lazybones, slugabed, sluggard, black sheep, Colloq US gold brick, goof-off: Why doesn't that lazy good-for-nothing get a job?
good-natured adj. good-humoured, friendly, agreeable, genial, gracious, good-hearted, pleasant, mellow, easygoing, considerate, nice, kind, kindly, kind-hearted, tender-hearted, charitable, tolerant, generous, courteous, cordial, warm, warm-hearted, amiable, amicable, cooperative: He seems a good-natured fellow, but not too bright.
gooey adj. 1 gluey, sticky, tacky, glutinous, mucilaginous, gummy: The pudding was accompanied by an unpleasantly gooey sauce. 2 sweet, sugary, saccharine, sentimental, unctuous, cloying, syrupy, mawkish, maudlin, Colloq mushy, slushy, sloppy: They like to watch those gooey soap operas.
gore v. pierce, stab, poke, horn, penetrate, puncture, spear, gouge, spit, stick, impale, disembowel: The matador, severely gored by the bull, was carried away.
gorgeous adj. 1 resplendent, splendid, magnificent, glorious, exquisite, sumptuous, dazzling, grand, beautiful, splendorous, breathtaking, radiant, refulgent, brilliant, showy, colourful, Colloq splendiferous: The males are known for their gorgeous plumage. 2 great, terrific, fantastic, wonderful, marvellous, glorious, spectacular, superb, excellent, Colloq fantabulous, marvy, smashing, super, nifty, neat, swell: He married a gorgeous fashion model.
gossip n. 1 chat, conversation, talk, chit-chat, small talk, palaver; tittle-tattle, prattle; Scots clishmaclaver; gup; Colloq Brit natter, chin-wag: I was just having a little gossip with my neighbour. 2 rumour, scandal, hearsay, information, on dit, word, Colloq grapevine, (inside) info, tittle-tattle, Slang dope, Chiefly US scuttlebutt, US and Canadian poop: The latest gossip is that she left him for another woman. 3 rumour-mill, rumour-monger, scandalmonger, gossip-monger, newsmonger, busybody, tattle-tale, quidnunc, blabber, blatherskite, tell-tale, talebearer, flibbertigibbet, Colloq big-mouth, chatterbox, blabbermouth, Nosy Parker: That old gossip will tell everybody your business. --v. 4 Sometimes, gossip about. bruit, tattle, rumour, whisper, blether or US blather, gabble, Colloq blab, Brit natter, Slang jaw: I was just gossiping to my friend about your new job.
gourmet n. epicure, connoisseur, Lucullus, gastronome, gourmand, bon vivant, bon viveur: My dear, that was a dinner fit for a gourmet!
government n. 1 rule, command, authority, regulation, control, management, direction, administration, sway, superintendence, supervision, oversight, guidance, domination: His government of the island has led to disorder. 2 administration, ministry, regime: The government intends to ban smoking in public places.
grace n. 1 elegance, gracefulness, suppleness, finesse, refinement, ease, polish, poise: She rides well, with an unconscious grace. 2 tastefulness, (good) taste, cultivation, suavity or suaveness, culture, savoir faire, discernment, discrimination, (good) manners, politeness, breeding, consideration, decency, etiquette, tact, propriety, decorum, mannerliness: They had the grace to ignore my rough attire. 3 indulgence, forgiveness, mercy, mercifulness, leniency, compassion, clemency, charity, goodwill, goodness: We survived the fire only by the grace of God. The company gives you 30 days' grace to pay the bill. 4 kindness, favour, kindliness, benevolence, generosity, goodness, graciousness, becomingness, seemliness; excellence, virtue, strength of character, considerateness: At least he had the good grace to admit being wrong. 5 blessing, thanksgiving, prayer, benediction: Grace was said before each meal. --v. 6 adorn, embellish, set off, decorate, ornament, beautify, enhance, garnish: The table was graced by a huge silver candelabrum. 7 dignify, enhance, distinguish, enrich, honour, favour: The dinner-party is graced by your presence.
gracious adj. kind, courteous, polite, well-mannered, kindly, benevolent, beneficent, indulgent, kind-hearted, warm-hearted, cordial, warm, friendly, sociable, good-natured, amiable, affable, benign, accommodating, obliging, agreeable, considerate: It was gracious of you to grant me an audience.
gradual adj. easy, gentle, even, moderate, slow, piecemeal, inchmeal, regular, steady: There is a gradual slope down to the garden wall. The acceleration was gradual. He became aware of a gradual erosion of his authority.
graduate n. 1 bachelor, postgraduate, US alumnus (pl. alumni) or alumna (pl. alumnae): Even university graduates found it difficult to get a job. --v. 2 gradate, mark, calibrate, grade, scale: This thermometer is graduated in increments of one tenth of a degree.
graft n. corruption, jobbery; bribery, extortion, Colloq payola, kickback: After only five years, he retired on the takings from graft.
grand adj. 1 large, great, huge, immense, enormous, impressive, imposing, splendid, fine, majestic, stately, lofty, monumental, lavish, magnificent, opulent, luxurious, palatial, sumptuous, Colloq posh: We were led into a grand hall where thousands awaited the emperor. 2 dignified, distinguished, august, respected, eminent, pre-eminent, outstanding, celebrated, illustrious, renowned, notable, legendary, exalted, revered, venerable, immortal: He is regarded as the grand old man of chemistry. 3 flamboyant, overdone, histrionic, ostentatious, pretentious, grandiose, lordly: The abysmal performance was punctuated by the actors' grand strutting and gesturing. 4 complete, total, sum, comprehensive, (all-)inclusive; bottom-line: The grand total of expenses came to 12,467. 5 marvellous, wonderful, outstanding, first-class, first-rate, splendid, excellent, superb, admirable, Colloq great, marvy, smashing, terrific, fantastic, fabulous, fantabulous, super: Isn't it grand that Freda will be able to go! 6 principal, chief, main, head, leading, foremost, highest: The grand vizier was second only to the caliph.
grandiose adj. 1 pretentious, ostentatious, showy, flamboyant, bombastic, histrionic, extravagant, pompous, fustian, high-flown, high-flying, overambitious, overdone, over-dramatic, melodramatic, Ossianic, inflated, affected, florid, flashy, Colloq highfalutin or hifalutin, flash: The council is unimpressed by your grandiose plans to redevelop the area, Mr Wren. 2 imposing, impressive, ambitious, grand, monumental, magnificent, lofty: She has some grandiose ideas for a national symphony orchestra.
granular adj. grainy, granulated, particulate, comminuted, gravelly, sandy, gritty: The sauce was somewhat granular and tasted too strongly of nutmeg.
graphic adj. 1 vivid, distinct, well-defined, detailed, explicit, particular, clear, lucid, plain, manifest, crystal clear, unmistakable or unmistakeable, unambiguous, accurate, precise, well-drawn, photographic, descriptive, telling, picturesque, pictorial, realistic, lifelike, true to life, Colloq gory: He described his injuries in graphic detail. 2 written, drawn, diagrammatic, delineated, visible: The magazine won a prize for graphic design.
grasp v. 1 grip, grab, seize, clasp, clutch, snatch, hold, take or lay or catch hold of, Colloq nab: I grasped the rope and was pulled to safety. 2 understand, comprehend, appreciate, catch (on), get, get the drift or point of, follow, see, realize, apprehend, learn, Colloq make head(s) or tail(s) of, Slang dig: I am trying to grasp the full import of what you are saying. --n. 3 hold, grip, clutches, clasp, embrace, lock: He loosened his grasp on my throat and I could breathe again. 4 possession, control, power, mastery, sovereignty, suzerainty, hold: By then, even the outer islands had fallen within his grasp. 5 understanding, comprehension, apprehension, awareness, perception, sense: He has a poor grasp of the basics of the subject.
grass v. 1 inform, betray, give away, Slang peach, squeal, snitch, squeak, tattle, rat on, sell out, Brit blow the gaff, nark: He received a shorter sentence for grassing on his accomplices. --n. 2 traitor, informer, Slang stool-pigeon, stoolie, squealer, snitch, squeaker, rat, Brit nark: A grass is treated roughly by fellow inmates.
grateful adj. thankful, appreciative: I am grateful for any help I can get.
gratify v. please, satisfy, fulfil, delight, compensate, recompense, reward, requite, cheer, gladden, favour: Albert would be gratified to see the good coming from his charitable bequests.
gratitude n. thankfulness, appreciation, gratefulness; thanks, return, compensation, thanksgiving: Here is a box of chocolates in gratitude for looking after my cat.
grave n. crypt, sepulchre, tomb, vault, mausoleum, last or final resting-place, eternal rest: She began to sob as the coffin was slowly lowered into the grave.
graveyard n. burial-ground, churchyard, cemetery, God's acre, necropolis, potter's field, W US Boot Hill, Rare Golgotha, Slang bone-yard: Uncle Valentine is buried in the graveyard on the hill.
greasy adj. 1 oily, sebaceous, fatty, fat, buttery, lardy, soapy, oleaginous, pinguid, butyraceous, saponaceous, waxy: Before curing, the hide is greasy with natural oils. 2 unctuous, oily, slippery, slithery, smooth, glib, fawning, slick, toadying, sycophantic, Slang Brit smarmy: Edna is so greasy, always trying to manoeuvre you into doing something for her.
greed n. 1 greediness, avarice, avariciousness, covetousness, acquisitiveness, cupidity, avidity, craving, yearning: Greed accounts for most of man's dishonesty. 2 meanness, stinginess, miserliness, selfishness, niggardliness, penuriousness, parsimony, close-fistedness, penny-pinching, tight-fistedness: From a life of greed he had accumulated enormous wealth. 3 gluttony, voraciousness, edacity, esurience, voracity, overeating, gormandizing, ravenousness, insatiableness: Obesity owes more to greed than to glandular disorder.
green adj. 1 verdant, grassy, fresh, leafy; rural, country-like: Plans call for a green belt to be created around every major city. 2 immature, unripe, unripened; nave, callow, untested, untrained, unversed, inexperienced, new, raw, unseasoned, unsophisticated, gullible, amateur, unskilled, unskilful, amateurish, non-professional, inexpert, Colloq wet behind the ears: This banana is still too green to eat. Isn't Piers a bit green to be given so much responsibility? 3 environmental, conservationist: The green activists appear to be gaining influence in governmental circles. --n. 4 lawn, sward, common, grassland: Let us meet on the village green at noon. 5 environmentalist, conservationist, preservationist: The greens are opposed to draining the marshes.
greet v. 1 welcome, receive, usher in, meet: We were greeted warmly by the family. 2 hail, accost, address, salute: People greeted him in the street with a wave and a smile.
grey adj. 1 ashen, leaden, colourless, pale, pallid, wan, livid, pearly, griseous, smoky, sooty, bloodless: The cadaver's skin was a dead, whitish grey. 2 gloomy, dismal, dull, depressing, glum, dreary, sombre, drab, cheerless, dark, murky, foggy, misty, cloudy, overcast, sunless: As if to mould her temperament, Kathleen was born on a grey December day in 1791. 3 aged, elderly, hoary, old, venerable, ancient: A stooped, grey crone inched along, muttering to herself. 4 mature, wise, experienced: Seventy years have spread their grey experience over his hoary head.
grievance adj. 1 wrong, ill, injustice, disservice, unfairness, injury, damage, harm, outrage, affront, indignity, hardship, calamity: I had to listen to details of every grievance she had ever suffered. 2 complaint, objection, charge, plaint, allegation, grudge, Colloq gripe, bone to pick, Brit crow to pluck, Slang beef: Please register all your grievances at the office next door.
grievous adj. 1 severe, heavy, painful, grave, serious, distressing, harmful; damaging, hurtful, acute, wounding: The church buildings suffered grievous damage from the storm. He was charged with causing grievous bodily harm. 2 egregious, awful, flagrant, terrible, outrageous, heinous, dreadful, atrocious, monstrous, appalling, shocking, deplorable, calamitous, lamentable, intolerable, shameful, unbearable: Missing that catch was a grievous error.
grime n. dirt, filth, soot, mud, muck, slime, scum: The lad began to rub the grime from the old oil lamp.
grip n. 1 hold, grasp, clutch, handgrip, clasp, hand-clasp: Losing his grip on the rope, he plummeted into the abyss. 2 control, command, hold, mastery; authority, influence, power, rule, domination, sovereignty, tenure, dominion, suzerainty, custody: Peter is losing his grip on reality. The dictator kept a tight grip on the people right up to his death. 3 grasp, understanding, apprehension, comprehension, sense, sensitivity, feel, feeling, awareness, perception, view, Slang US handle: Skerry is having trouble getting a grip on what you plan to do. 4 handgrip, valise, (travelling or overnight) bag, case, satchel, suitcase, Brit holdall, US and Canadian carry-all: I got off the plane in New York, but my grip went on to Detroit. 5 come or get to grips with. tackle, confront, approach, handle, meet (head on), undertake, grapple or contend with, cope or deal with, face: We must come to grips with the problem of Cassandra. --v. 6 grasp, clutch, clasp, hold, seize: He gripped the handle of the revolver more tightly. 7 engross, engage, hold, fascinate, enthral, entrance, absorb, mesmerize, hypnotize, spellbind, rivet: Just at the gripping climax, the reel broke and the film stopped.
grisly adj. gruesome, gory, abhorrent, abominable, awful, appalling, hideous, shocking, nasty, dreadful, repulsive, repellent, repugnant, disgusting, sickening, nauseating, horrific, horrid, horrendous, horrifying, terrible, terrifying, terrific: A grisly scene greeted the soldiers who liberated the concentration camp.
gritty adj. 1 sandy, gravelly, granular, grainy, rough, abrasive, rasping, arenose: The texture of the mud-pack felt somewhat gritty on her face. 2 courageous, valorous, brave, resolute, tough, mettlesome, plucky, spirited, game, intrepid, dauntless, tenacious, determined, persistent, firm, hardy, staunch, stalwart, doughty, fearless, Colloq gutsy, spunky: The band of gritty frontiersman was led by Sheriff Boswell.
groggy adj. unsteady, shaky, wobbly, weak-kneed, weak, staggering, stupefied, dazed, stunned, reeling, punch-drunk, numb, numbed, benumbed, faint, in a trance or stupor, muddled, addled, confused, bewildered, confounded, puzzled, baffled, befuddled, Colloq dopey, punchy, woozy, Brit muzzy: I was still groggy from the blow on the head.
groove n. slot, cut, channel, furrow, gouge, trough; flute, scratch, striation or stria, rifling, rifle, Architecture glyph, Technical sulcus: The door slides in these grooves at the sides.
gross adj. 1 fat, obese, corpulent, overweight, big, large, bulky, great, heavy, ponderous, massive, cumbersome, unwieldy: The gross detective eased his bulk onto a tiny chair. 2 total, aggregate, entire, pre-tax, (all-)inclusive, overall, whole: The gross profit was up by 15 per cent this year. 3 coarse, vulgar, crude, unsophisticated, uncultured, uncultivated, earthy, crass, indelicate, indecent, inappropriate, unseemly, improper, unrefined, bawdy, ribald, Rabelaisian, raw, rude, offensive, obscene, lewd, dirty, smutty, pornographic, filthy: That was too gross a story for mixed company. 4 outrageous, flagrant, obvious, plain, glaring, shameful, blatant, monstrous, heinous, manifest, evident: Her conviction was a gross miscarriage of justice. 5 disgusting, repulsive, repellent, revolting, nauseating: His table manners are truly gross. --v. 6 earn, bring or take in, make: We grossed over a million but netted only 50,000 after expenses. --n. 7 (overall) total, take, intake, takings, receipts, gate: As I said, the gross was over a million.
ground n. 1 earth, soil, turf, sod, dirt, loam, clay; land, terrain: There is a great hole in the ground behind my house. 2 territory, area, range, scope, compass: We covered the ground quite thoroughly at our meeting. 3 Often, grounds. basis, foundation, base, reason, footing, justification, rationale, argument, cause, motive, excuse: What are her grounds for suing for divorce? 4 grounds. sediment, dregs, lees, deposit, settlings, Brit grouts: Filter out the grounds before drinking the coffee. --v. 5 base, establish, organize, found; settle, set: The school's philosophy is grounded on the principles of Maria Montessori. 6 instruct, teach, train, coach, tutor, inform, prepare, initiate: The purpose of the course is to ground students in basic mathematics.
groundwork n. basis, spadework, preparation(s), base, foundation, underpinning(s), cornerstone: The report provided the groundwork for the research.
grovelling adj. obsequious, fawning, toadying, toad-eating, sycophantish, subservient, slavish, servile, submissive, kowtowing, cringing, cowering, truckling, snivelling, scraping, tugging the forelock, abject, crawling, base, low, mean, sordid, Colloq boot-licking, US apple-polishing; Slang brown-nosing, Brit arse-kissing, arse-licking, US ass-kissing, ass-licking: The grovelling coward threw himself to the ground, begging forgiveness.
growth n. 1 development, evolution, evolvement, cultivation, nurturing, increase, expansion, broadening, extension, enlargement, spread, proliferation, flowering: The growth of education was a slow and painful process. 2 vegetation, crop: The area is covered with a dense growth of timber. 3 advance, advancement, success, improvement, expansion, rise, progress: The growth of the economy has slowed down in the last quarter. 4 wen, excrescence, wart, lump, tumour, swelling, intumescence: He developed an ugly growth on his nose.
gruesome adj. ghastly, repugnant, horrible, horrid, horrific, horrendous, grisly, hideous, revolting, repellent, repulsive, loathsome, grim, grotesque, macabre, abominable, frightful, frightening, fearsome, shocking, terrible, awful: She told a tale too gruesome to repeat here.
guarantee n. 1 guaranty, warranty, assurance, pledge, bond, obligation, promise; word (of honour), oath, undertaking: The guarantee expires one month from the sell-by date. Have I your guarantee that this battery will last a year? --v. 2 guaranty, warranty, assure, ensure, pledge, promise, undertake, stand behind, vouch for, certify, make sure or certain, swear to, attest to: The manufacturer guarantees every car for three years or 50,000 miles.
guarded adj. careful, cautious, heedful, prudent, circumspect, wary, noncommittal, restrained, mindful, suspicious, leery or Brit also leary, apprehensive; loath or loth, reticent, reluctant, Colloq cagey: He became very guarded under close questioning. When I asked where she had been, she gave a guarded answer.
guerrilla n. guerilla, partisan or partizan, resistance or freedom or underground fighter, irregular; insurgent, saboteur, terrorist; US history Jayhawker, French history Maquis: The guerrillas continue to attack the government's supply convoys.
guest n. visitor, company, caller; patron, customer, lodger, boarder, roomer: Our guests get clean linen daily.
guide v. 1 lead, show or lead the way, conduct, shepherd, direct, usher, steer, orient or Brit orientate: She guided me to the proper office. What will guide your judgement in dealing with this situation? 2 steer, pilot, manoeuvre, navigate, direct: He carefully guided the boat between the shoals. 3 counsel, advise, influence, sway; supervise, oversee, handle, manage, superintend, direct, control, regulate, govern: Mr Thrall guided my artistic development from the beginning. 4 instruct, teach, tutor, train: From early youth we were guided by the elders of the community. --n. 5 leader, conductor, director, cicerone, chaperon, mentor, counsel, counsellor, adviser or advisor, guru, master: He served as my guide through the financial jungle. Let your conscience be your guide. 6 model, criterion, exemplar, standard, ideal, example, inspiration: She looked upon the life of Mother Theresa as a guide. 7 beacon, light, signal, guiding light, landmark, lodestar, sign, marker: The Southern Cross was our constant guide sailing round the Horn. 8 handbook, manual, enchiridion, vade-mecum, guidebook, Baedeker: Can you recommend a good guide to English usage?
guilty adj. 1 responsible, culpable, answerable, blameworthy, at fault, delinquent, wrong; offending, reprehensible: Whoever was guilty will be prosecuted. First we must find the guilty party. 2 remorseful, contrite, regretful, sorry, apologetic, repentant, sorrowful, conscience-stricken, rueful, penitent; ashamed, shame-faced, sheepish, embarrassed, red-faced: Gavin felt terribly guilty for having insulted Tina.
gulf n. 1 bay, bight, cove, inlet, sound, loch or sea loch, firth or frith, fiord or fjord, Irish lough, Brit creek: We sailed into the gulf to shelter from the wind behind the cliffs. 2 chasm, deep, depth, abyss, abysm, void, space, opening, rift, breach, gap, separation, rift, split: After the divorce, the gulf between us widened even further.
gully n. gulley, channel, river-bed, watercourse, gorge, ravine, canyon, notch, cut, pass, defile, valley, corridor, wadi, Brit gill or ghyll, W US arroyo , US and Canadian gulch: We rode along in the gully so as not to be seen.
gumption n. 1 resourcefulness, shrewdness, cleverness, (mother) wit, (common) sense, astuteness, judgement, Colloq horse sense, brains, Slang Brit nous: It takes a lot of gumption to run a good cattle auction. 2 backbone, grit, pluck, mettle, enterprise, initiative, courage, spirit, gameness, nerve, daring, vigour, energy, boldness, audacity, stamina, Colloq spunk, guts, get-up-and-go, US moxie, Slang Brit bottle, Taboo slang balls: He hasn't the gumption to go into business for himself.
gush v. 1 cascade, rush, flood, stream, spurt, jet, spout, burst; run, flow: The water gushed out of the pipe, soaking us all. 2 bubble over, overflow, be ebullient or effusive or effervescent, effervesce, make much of, fuss over, prattle, chatter, babble, jabber, blather or blether, Colloq Brit natter, witter: It was impossible to stop them from gushing on about the performance. --n. 3 cascade, rush, flood, flow, stream, spurt, jet, spout, burst, torrent: A gush of water hit me right in the face. 4 exuberance, effusion, bubbling over, outburst: After the first gush of enthusiasm, everything quieted down.
gust n. 1 puff, blow, wind, breeze, blast: A gust of wind blew my hat off. --v. 2 puff, blow, blast, surge, increase: The wind gusted up to gale force overnight.
gut n. 1 Often, guts. bowels, intestines, entrails, viscera, stomach, offal, vitals, vital parts, gurry, Brit (of a deer) gralloch, Colloq insides, innards or inwards: As soon as the game is killed, the guts must be removed. 2 stomach, abdomen, belly; beer-belly, bay window, corporation: His enormous gut hung over his belt. 3 guts. a backbone, bravery, boldness, audacity, pluck, courage, determination, daring, spirit, grit, mettle, gumption, nerve, intestinal fortitude, Colloq spunk, gutsiness, Slang Brit bottle, Taboo balls: He hasn't the guts to tell the boss what he thinks of him. b integrity, will-power, stamina, endurance, forcefulness, dynamism: It takes real guts to stand up for your rights. --v. 4 disembowel, eviscerate, draw, dress, clean: It will take hours to gut all these fish. 5 ransack, pillage, plunder, sack, despoil, strip, ravage, loot, rifle, Rare depredate; clean out, devastate, empty: The building was completely gutted by the fire. --adj. 6 basic, heartfelt, instinctive, instinctual, intuitive, visceral, deep-seated, emotional: My gut reaction is to refuse the offer.
guy n. 1 man, lad, youth, boy, fellow, person, Colloq chap, geezer, Brit bloke, Slang gink, cat, customer, US dude, Old-fashioned gazabo or gazebo: Clarence is a pretty nice guy. --v. 2 mock, ridicule, make fun of, caricature, satirize, poke fun at, lampoon, Colloq rib, take off, Brit send up: We put on a show at school in which we guyed the teachers.
habit n. 1 custom, routine, practice, convention, policy, pattern, usage, mode, rule, wont, praxis: Jogging every morning had become a habit. She is a creature of habit. 2 tendency, disposition, manner, practice, way, custom, inclination, bent, predisposition, second nature, frame of mind, attitude, penchant, propensity, proclivity; addiction, compulsion: This kettle has a habit of leaking. Try to control your bad habits. 3 attire, clothing, dress, apparel, clothes, garb, costume, garments, vestments, uniform, raiment, livery, regalia, habiliment(s), Colloq gear: She was disguised in a monk's habit.
habitat n. abode, home, haunt, domain, range, territory, bailiwick, realm, terrain, element, environment, surroundings, Colloq stamping-ground: The winter habitat of the monarch butterfly is in northern Mexico. Curtis doesn't function well outside his natural habitat.
habitu n. frequenter, patron, regular customer, Colloq regular: Larry has been a habitu of The Bell Inn for 20 years.
hack n. 1 drudge, penny-a-liner, scribbler, Grub Street writer: We made a mistake hiring that hack as a feature writer. 2 plodder, drudge, toiler, menial, flunkey, lackey, slave, Brit fag, Slang grind, Brit swot: Fergus gets good grades because he's such a hack. 3 saddle-horse, riding-horse, hackney, Archaic palfrey: The hack was a fine bay mare. --adj. 4 hackneyed, trite, banal, overdone, commonplace, routine, stereotyped, stock, tired, tedious, mediocre, overworked, stale, unoriginal, run-of-the-mill, humdrum, moth-eaten, mouldy, Colloq old hat: Haverstock keeps publishing hack romances.
haggard adj. gaunt, drawn, wasted, emaciated, hollow-eyed, hollow-cheeked, scrawny, scraggy, ghastly, cadaverous, run-down, wearied, weary, careworn, spent, played out, exhausted, toil-worn, worn, shrunken, withered: She looked haggard, as if she hadn't slept for a week.
hail v. 1 greet, accost, address, signal, call: Robert hailed us from across the road. 2 cheer, salute, applaud, approve, glorify, praise, laud, honour, acclaim, congratulate, felicitate, acknowledge: He was hailed by all for his charitable work.
hair n. 1 tresses, locks, mane, curls, ringlets; braids, plaits: You will recognize her by her red hair. 2 hair's breadth, whisker, trifle, fraction, skin of one's teeth: He won the race by a hair.
hairless adj. bald, bald-headed, bald-pated, glabrous, calvous: She finds hairless men rather sexy.
hairy adj. 1 hirsute, shaggy, downy, fleecy, fluffy, woolly, lanate or lanose, lanuginous or lanuginose, bristly, setaceous, setal, hispid, comate or comose, fringy, crinite, trichoid, strigose or strigous, strigillose; whiskered, bewhiskered, bearded, barbate, unshaven: The creature had a very hairy face. 2 tricky, dangerous, perilous, risky, uncertain, precarious, hazardous, frightening, worrying, nerve-racking or nerve-wracking, Colloq scary: The situation at the office has become very hairy. 3 tangled, intricate, knotty, complex, complicated, difficult, problematic, confused, confusing: The exam contained some hairy questions.
half-hearted adj. indifferent, uncaring, unconcerned, lukewarm, uninterested, dispassionate, cool, unenthusiastic, half-baked, nonchalant, phlegmatic, lackadaisical, insouciant: The council has made only a half-hearted effort to solve the problem.
halfwitted adj. stupid, foolish, silly, simple, inane, asinine, moronic, imbecilic, doltish, rattle-brained, feeble-minded, attocerebral, cretinous, thick, non compos mentis, dim-witted, weak-minded, Colloq dumb, Brit dotty, barmy (in the crumpet): She had some halfwitted idea that she would win the lottery.
hallmark n. 1 authentication, verification, seal or stamp (of authenticity or approval), mark, device, sign, symbol; plate-mark; assay-mark: From this hallmark we know when and where the piece was made, by whom, and its degree of purity. Surprise endings are the hallmark of O. Henry's short stories. 2 feature, stamp, mark, earmark, trade mark, characteristic, identification: From his hallmark, a tiny axe, you can tell that the painting is a genuine Fellworthy.
hallucination n. fantasy, mirage, day-dream, illusion, delusion, vision, dream, aberration, chimera, phantasm, phantom, figment of the imagination, apparition, spectre, ghost; parsthesia: Alone at sea for a fortnight, I began having hallucinations.
halt n. 1 stop, standstill, end, termination, close, stoppage, cessation: We must call a halt to absenteeism in the factory. --v. 2 stop, quit, end, terminate, cease, check, curb, stem, discontinue, desist, bring or come or draw to an end or close, put an end or stop to, conclude, shut or close down or up: We halted when we came to the river. The guerrillas halted the armoured column at the pass.
hamper v. slow, balk or baulk, delay, hold up, retard, inhibit, encumber, hinder, obstruct, block, impede, prevent, interfere with, frustrate, restrict, curb, limit, handicap, restrain, trammel, bar, barricade, shackle, clog, curtail, lessen, reduce, diminish: Ice floes hampered their further progress.
hand n. 1 Slang mitt, paw, US lunch-hook: Keep your hands off me, you oaf! 2 help, aid, assistance, helping hand, relief, boost; leg up: Please give me a hand with this trunk. 3 influence, agency, participation, involvement, part, share: Did you have a hand in my getting the appointment? 4 (manual) labourer, worker, workman, man, help, employee: It's getting harder to find hands for the farm. 5 pointer, indicator, index: The minute hand covers the hour hand at noon and midnight. 6 (round of) applause, ovation, clap: Give the lad a hand for trying. 7 handwriting, penmanship, script; calligraphy: The writing was in a hand that she could not recognize. 8 Often, hands. control, hold, grasp, possession, custody, clutches, keeping, power, disposal, jurisdiction, authority, supervision, management, guardianship, care: At last, the government is in the hands of the people. 9 at hand. nearby, close, near, close by, handy, (readily) available, to or on hand, at one's fingertips, convenient, within (arm's) reach, accessible, present; approaching, imminent, around the corner: He always kept a pistol at hand. The Day of Judgement is at hand. 10 hand in glove. hand in hand, in league, together, in collusion, collusively, connivingly, conspiringly, intimately, closely, jointly, Colloq in cahoots: An informer is working hand in glove with the police. 11 hand in hand. together, side by side, hand in glove: They walked hand in hand down the road. 12 hand-over-fist. quickly, speedily, rapidly, swiftly, steadily, like mad: He makes money hand-over-fist in the stock market. 13 hands down. easily, readily, effortlessly: He can win the marathon hands down. --v. 14 give, pass, deliver, present to or with: Please hand me the hammer. 15 hand down or on or over. a bequeath, will, pass on; transfer, turn over: The farm has been handed down from father to son for seven generations. b See 18 (a), below. 16 hand in. submit, give in, tender, proffer, offer: I handed in my resignation. 17 hand out. distribute, disseminate, pass out or round or around, give out, deal (out), mete or dole out, dispense; disburse: She was handing out leaflets to passers-by. 18 hand over. a deliver, submit, yield, give up, surrender, turn over; transfer: The man produced a gun and told the cashier to hand over the money. b See 15 (a), above.
handful n. 1 few, couple, sprinkling, small number; fistful: Only a handful of restaurants are open that late. He gave the beggar a handful of change. 2 (behaviour or disciplinary) problem, bother, mischief-maker, troublemaker, nuisance: Timothy was a real handful when he was five.
handily adv. 1 readily, easily, effortlessly, without strain, comfortably, with both hands tied (behind one's back): Donald handily won the first prize in the poetry competition. 2 skilfully, capably, deftly, cleverly, dexterously, adroitly, expertly, proficiently, masterfully: I could never do that intricate work as handily as she.
handsome adj. 1 good-looking, fine-looking, attractive, fair, comely: He's handsome enough to be a movie star. 2 generous, sizeable, large, big, substantial, considerable, good, goodly, ample, abundant: She has made a handsome profit on the painting.
hang v. 1 suspend, depend, dangle; be poised or suspended, hover, swing: Hang the lantern from this branch. The laundry was hanging on the line. 2 gibbet, send to the gallows, lynch, execute, kill, Colloq string up, stretch: They hanged two murderers this morning. 3 drape, fall: The skirt isn't hanging straight. 4 hang about or around. a loiter, wait, linger, dally, idle, tarry , Colloq hang out: He hangs about after school every day, waiting for Susan. b Also, hang about or around (with). frequent, haunt, visit, spend time at; associate with, socialize with, hobnob with, rub elbows with, consort with, fraternize with, mix or mingle with, Colloq hang out (with): He hangs about the Golden Crown. I saw him hanging around with some pretty unsavoury characters. 5 hang back (from). be reluctant, recoil (from), shrink (from), hesitate, falter, stay away (from): Move to the front of the queue and don't hang back. 6 hang fire. be delayed, remain unsettled or unfinished, be in suspense or abeyance; stall, hold up, delay: The decision will hang fire till after the election. 7 hang on. a Also, hang on to. hold on (to), cling (to), clutch, grip, grasp, grab: Hang on to me when we're crossing the street. b wait, stay, stop: Hang on a minute - what did you call me? c wait, persist, remain, carry on, persevere, go on, hold out, endure, hold the phone, Colloq US hang in there: Hang on a minute, I have to put down the phone to get a pencil. d Also, hang on to or upon. listen carefully or attentively, give one's undivided attention, be rapt: She hung on every word the guru uttered. e depend or rely (on), be dependent or contingent (on), be subject (to), be conditioned or conditional (on): The entire project now hangs on their approval of the budget. 8 hang one's head. be ashamed or humiliated or abashed or humbled or embarrassed: She hung her head as the store detective confronted her with the stolen goods. 9 hang out. See 5 (a), above. 10 hang over. be put off or postponed or delayed: We must first deal with matters hanging over from our last meeting. 11 hang together. a unite, be united, be as one, stick together, join forces, cooperate, act in concert or harmony: We must hang together or we shall hang separately. b make sense, be logical, be consistent, correspond, match (up), cohere, be coherent: The statements issued yesterday and today just don't hang together. 12 hang up. break the connection, disconnect, cut off, put down the receiver: Whenever a salesman phones, I simply hang up.
hangman n. executioner, Archaic Brit Jack Ketch: The hangman, a black hood concealing his identity, slipped the noose over the prisoner's head.
hanky-panky n. mischief, trickery, double-dealing, legerdemain, deception, duplicity, chicanery, naughtiness, foolishness, tomfoolery, Colloq funny business, jiggery-pokery, monkey business, shenanigans, goings-on, antics: He'd best not try any of his hanky-panky with the tax inspector.
happen v. 1 occur, take place, come about, go on, come to pass, develop; betide, chance, prove, materialize, Colloq transpire, come off, Slang cook: What is happening? As it happens, everyone has already left. 2 befall, become of: What will happen to me if I refuse? 3 happen on or upon. come upon, chance or hit on or upon, stumble on or upon, find, turn up, encounter, meet with: It was then that I happened on an old letter of his.
happily adv. 1 fortunately, luckily, propitiously, providentially, opportunely: Happily, she made a full recovery and was soon back at work. 2 joyfully, joyously, delightedly, gleefully, cheerily, cheerfully, gaily, merrily, blithely; enthusiastically, heartily: She waved happily as they drove off. 3 gladly, with pleasure, agreeably, contentedly, willingly, peaceably: And they both lived happily ever after.
happy adj. 1 pleased, delighted, glad, joyous, joyful, overjoyed, jubilant, cheerful, cheery, blithe, blithesome, glad, light-hearted, contented, exhilarated, exultant, cock-a-hoop, elated, exuberant, thrilled, gleeful, euphoric, ecstatic, satisfied, gratified, Colloq on top of the world, on cloud nine, pleased as Punch, tickled pink, Brit in the seventh heaven, over the moon, US in seventh heaven: Her parents were happy that Georgina was married at last. 2 lucky, fortuitous, propitious, fortunate, auspicious, advantageous, beneficial, favourable, felicitous, opportune, timely, well-timed, apt, appropriate: By a happy chance, we were in Bermuda at the same time.
harass v. badger, harry, hector, trouble, torment, bother, exasperate, hound, plague, persecute, vex, annoy, irritate, pester, worry, beset, bait, nag, pick on or at, tease, torture, Brit chivvvy or chivy or chevy: The police harass me by turning up at all hours for 'help with their inquiries'.
harbour n. 1 port, (safe) haven, anchorage, mooring: We sailed into the harbour just as the storm broke. --v. 2 shelter, keep safe, protect, shield, guard, safeguard, conceal, hide: They were found guilty of harbouring a known fugitive. 3 cherish, foster, nurture, nurse, keep, retain, maintain, hold, cling to: She harbours a grudge against whoever set the fire.
harden v. 1 set, solidify, stiffen, freeze: The concrete will harden overnight. 2 intensify, strengthen, brace, fortify, toughen, reinforce, stiffen: The opposition have hardened their stand against privatization.
hardship n. want, privation, deprivation, suffering, misery, distress, affliction, adversity, austerity, misfortune, unhappiness, ill fortune, bad luck, difficulty, trouble: The hardship of frontier life has never been fully described.
hardy adj. 1 robust, sturdy, strong, rugged, tough, durable, sound, stalwart, stout, vigorous, able-bodied, red-blooded, fit, hale, healthy, Colloq husky: The pioneers were hardy souls. 2 bold, courageous, daring, valorous, valiant, brave, manly, intrepid, fearless, heroic, plucky: He was among the hardy sailors who went with Magellan.
harm n. 1 injury, damage, mischief, hurt, abuse, misfortune: A bodyguard was hired to see that no harm would come to her. 2 evil, wrongdoing, wickedness, iniquity, wrong, badness: I meant no harm when I told Phoebe that her husband was having dinner with Kathy. --v. 3 hurt, damage, injure, abuse, maltreat, wound: She insists that her pet viper would never harm her.
harmless adj. benign, innocuous, inoffensive, gentle, mild, innocent, safe; non-toxic, non-poisonous, non-venomous: Pay no attention to such harmless gossip. It is impossible to identify harmless snakes by sight.
harmony n. 1 agreement, accord, concord, compatibility, rapport, unanimity, unity: The purpose is to promote harmony among the warring factions. 2 consonance, congruity, balance, orderliness, closeness, togetherness, consistency, fitness, parallelism: A sense of harmony can be felt among the European nations. 3 melodiousness, euphony, tunefulness: Their voices are in perfect harmony.
harsh adj. 1 rough, coarse, bristly, scratchy, hairy, crude; hoarse, grating, raucous, rasping, husky, guttural; clashing, inharmonious or unharmonious, discordant, atonal, dissonant, cacophonous, strident, shrill, grinding, sour; bitter, sour, acrid: He found harsh the sights, sounds, tastes, and smells of the Casbah. 2 stern, austere, bleak, dour, unkind, unfeeling, comfortless, uncompassionate, unfriendly, grim, hard, Spartan, stringent, over-exacting, Draconian, tyrannical, stark, severe, cruel, abusive, punishing, punitive, brutal, brutish, inhuman, merciless, ruthless, pitiless: Simon is a very harsh taskmaster. 3 unpleasant, disagreeable, impolite, discourteous, uncivil, rude, nasty, curt, abrupt, brusque, bluff, gruff, curmudgeonly, choleric, splenetic, surly, sullen, irascible, short-tempered, petulant, peevish, waspish, grouchy, bilious, cross, acrimonious, sarcastic, acerbic: Why is Maria so harsh to Alan?
hash n. 1 mixture, confusion, hotchpotch or US and Canadian hodgepodge, pot-pourri, gallimaufry, farrago, mishmash, jumble, mess, shambles, olla podrida, mlange, medley: The building is a hash of a dozen architectural styles. 2 fiasco, disaster, botch, mess, Slang Brit balls-up, US snafu: The council really made a hash of its housing policy. --v. 3 Often, hash up. mangle, mess or mix up, make a hash or mess or jumble of, muddle, bungle, botch, mishandle, mismanage, ruin, spoil, butcher, Colloq foul or louse up, screw up, muff, Brit bugger up: Our plans for a holiday have been all hashed up.
hasten v. 1 hurry, rush, make haste, fly, run, sprint, race, bolt, dash, scurry, scamper, scuttle, speed: He hastened forward to greet her. 2 hurry (up), speed (up), dispatch or despatch, send, move, quicken, accelerate, expedite, rush, impel, urge: Is there any way to hasten delivery of the mail?
hasty adj. 1 quick, speedy, swift, rapid, fast, brisk, prompt, immediate, instantaneous: He made a hasty departure so as not to be late. 2 careless, rash, precipitate, impetuous, impulsive, reckless, thoughtless, unthinking, incautious, heedless, ill-considered, inconsiderate: His was a hasty decision. 3 quick, speedy, cursory, superficial, fleeting, passing, slapdash, perfunctory, momentary, brief: I had a hasty look at the contract, which seemed all right. 4 irritable, quick-tempered, irascible, testy, passionate, impatient, hot-tempered, petulant, waspish, volatile, contentious, choleric, splenetic, bearish, short-tempered, US and Canadian and Irish cranky: Grandfather needn't have been so hasty with the poor child.
hate v. 1 loathe, abhor, detest, have an aversion to, be averse to, abominate, dislike, execrate, despise, scorn: I hate the smell of petrol, it really turns my stomach. 2 be loath, be reluctant or unwilling or disinclined; resist, shrink or flinch from, dislike, shrink from: I hate to tell you what I really think. She hated revealing Bill's affair to his wife. --n. 3 hatred, abhorrence, loathing, odium, animosity, animus, antipathy, aversion, hostility, antagonism, malice, enmity, detestation: He didn't believe he could feel so much hate for one person.
haughty adj. arrogant, proud, superior, self-important, smug, self-satisfied, complacent, pretentious, conceited, egotistical, snobbish, overbearing, lofty, presumptuous, overweening, patronizing, supercilious, vain, condescending, contemptuous, belittling, derisive, disdainful, scornful, Colloq highfalutin or hifalutin, hoity-toity, stuck-up, swell-headed or swelled-headed or swollen-headed, high and mighty, on (his or her) high horse, snooty, la-di-da or lah-di-dah or la-de-da, Slang snotty, uppish, uppity: She's too haughty to have made any friends here.
haunt v. 1 visit, frequent, hang about or around, spend time at, US habituate: She haunts the yacht club, waiting for her ship to come in. 2 beset, obsess, plague, torment, trouble, possess, prey on: He is haunted by the fear that she told the police everything. --n. 3 gathering-place, meeting-place, stamping-ground, Colloq hang-out: She returned to Abergavenny to visit the haunts of her youth.
havoc n. 1 ruin, devastation, destruction, desolation, rack or wrack and ruin, despoliation, spoliation, damage: Gales of more than 80 mph wreaked havoc right across the British Isles. 2 confusion, chaos, upset, disorder, mayhem, shambles, disruption: The railway slow-down created havoc with commuter schedules.
hazardous adj. unsafe, risky, fraught with danger, questionable, shaky, dangerous, precarious, uncertain, unpredictable, parlous, ticklish, tricky, Colloq chiefly Brit dicey, dicky or dickey, Slang hairy: It took three months to make the hazardous overland journey in those days.
head n. 1 skull, pate, cranium, Colloq dome, Slang coco(nut), belfry, noggin, bean, nut, rocker, noodle, gourd, Brit conk, crumpet, noddle, loaf: She laid her head on the pillow and fell sound asleep. 2 chief, leader, administrator, chief executive officer, CEO, (managing) director, MD, president, chairman, chairwoman, chairlady, chairperson, chair, employer, principal, superintendent, supervisor, governor, prime minister, headmaster, headmistress, Colloq boss, headman, the man, Brit guv'nor, guv, US (chief) honcho; Slang big cheese, US Mr Big: The new head has called a meeting of the board of directors. 3 front, vanguard, forefront, van, fore-part: At the head of the column marched the general himself. 4 aptitude, intellect, intelligence, talent, perception, perceptiveness, mentality, faculty, flair, genius, brain, mind, wit, Colloq brains, grey matter: I have no head for figures. 5 crisis, apex, (critical or turning) point, peak, crest, (fever) pitch, climax, culmination, conclusion, crescendo: Matters have been brought to a head because of the coming elections. 6 source, origin, fount, font, fountain-head, well-spring: We were trying to reach the head of the stream before nightfall. 7 top, first place, leading position, leadership, forefront: Albert is at the head of his class in mathematics. 8 head over heels. completely, entirely, deeply, utterly, wholly, fully, Colloq madly, wildly: The two of them are head over heels in love. --adj. 9 first, chief, main, principal, leading, premier, foremost, prime, pre-eminent, cardinal, paramount, supreme, superior, senior: Alphonse is our new head chef. --v. 10 go, move, proceed, turn, steer, aim, point, head for, make a beeline for: I shall head home when I leave here. 11 head up, be in or take charge (of), direct, supervise, oversee, control, govern, run, (take the) lead, guide, manage, command, rule, administer, conduct: Who will head the organization if you resign? 12 lead, precede, top: Charlotte heads the list of candidates. 13 head off. a intercept, divert; cut off, stop, block: The cavalry will head them off at the pass. b stop, forestall, prevent, inhibit, avert, ward or fend off: What can we do to head off inflation?
headway n. 1 progress, forward motion, improvement: Headway against that current was almost impossible. Any headway to report? 2 make headway. advance, progress, move forward, go, gain (ground), get or go ahead, proceed, get going: I tried to persuade her but haven't made much headway.
health n. 1 condition, fitness, trim, fettle, form, constitution: My health has improved enough for me to return to work. 2 healthiness, haleness, healthfulness, robustness, vigour, vigorousness, salubrity, salubriousness, well-being, strength: The health of the economy is good.
heap n. 1 collection, pile, mound, stack, accumulation, aggregation, agglomeration, congeries, conglomeration, hoard, mass, store, mountain, stockpile, supply, Colloq US and Canadian stash: Donors contributed a huge heap of clothing for the sale. 2 Often, heaps. abundance, plethora, superabundance, lot(s), plenty, great deal, scores, peck, sea, Colloq lashings, load(s), piles, ton(s), raft(s), pots, oodles, scad(s), US and Canadian slew: It was served with heaps of chocolate sauce. Heaps of people bought your record. You're in for a heap of trouble. --v. 3 collect, gather, harvest, reap, glean, garner, pile (up), accumulate, cumulate, aggregate, amass, stockpile, save (up), bank, lay by or up or in, set aside, Colloq stash (away): In autumn, squirrels heap up their supplies of nuts for the winter. 4 shower, load, bestow, give, provide, burden: The grateful prince heaped us with treasure beyond imagination.
heart n. 1 Colloq ticker, pump: The doctor says I have a dicky heart. 2 stomach, nerve, courage, bravery, mettle, will, boldness, pluck, resolution, determination; callousness, insensitivity, heartlessness; Colloq guts, spunk: I haven't the heart to tell him that his hamster died. 3 (basic) nature, core, centre, focus, hub, middle, marrow, pith, essence, quintessence, nucleus, nub, crux, basics, fundamentals, Colloq nitty-gritty: Let's get down to the heart of the matter. 4 sincerity, sentiment(s), feeling(s), spirit, verve, enthusiasm: She's going through the motions, but her heart isn't in her work. 5 humanity, humanitarianism, sympathy, understanding, kindness, kindliness, compassion, empathy, goodness, consideration, concern, soul, tenderness, magnanimity, generosity, sensitivity, sensibility, sentiment, pity, (brotherly) love, affection: Mother Theresa is known for having a lot of heart. Have you no heart, Genghis?
heartfelt adj. sincere, honest, genuine, unfeigned, earnest, serious, wholehearted, deep, profound, dedicated, devoted, ardent, committed, fervent, fervid, hearty, passionate: It is my heartfelt wish that you should succeed.
heart-rending adj. agonizing, distressing, excruciating, bitter, painful, heartbreaking, harrowing, piteous, tragic, depressing, poignant: Her distress was heart-rending to behold.
hearty adj. 1 genial, warm, kind-hearted, affectionate, amiable, amicable, friendly, affable, cordial, open, convivial: I was greeted by a hearty welcome when I returned. 2 genuine, unfeigned, authentic, sincere, heartfelt, warm, wholehearted, honest, earnest, devout, stalwart, stout: Please give Desmond my hearty congratulations. 3 enthusiastic, vigorous, energetic, eager, zealous, exuberant, robust, active, animated, strong: They are hearty supporters of our cause. 4 abundant, ample, substantial, solid, sizeable, satisfying, square; nourishing, invigorating, strengthening: On Sundays, we had a hearty meal at midday when we could afford it. 5 healthy, hale, vigorous, robust, strong, sound: Well, Eric, now that you're over your malaria you appear to be quite hearty.
heated adj. impassioned, excited, intensified, aroused, quickened, stimulated, inflamed, vehement, fiery, frenzied, frantic, frenetic, passionate, fervent, fervid, ardent, intense, furious, stormy, tempestuous, violent; angry, bitter: There was a heated dispute over animal rights, which finally led to blows.
heave v. 1 raise, lift, hoist, haul, pull, draw, tug; move: We heaved in the anchor and made sail. 2 throw, toss, hurl, fling, cast, sling, pitch, let fly, send, launch, Colloq peg, chuck: When he heaved the sword into the lake a hand rose from the waters and caught it. 3 breathe, utter, sigh, groan, moan, gasp: We heaved a sigh of relief when we heard that they had been found. 4 gag, retch, vomit, be sick, regurgitate, disgorge, Colloq throw up, Slang puke, lose one's lunch, return one's dinner, US upchuck, spiff one's biscuits: The smell of petrol always makes me heave.
heavenly adj. 1 divine, angelic, seraphic, celestial, holy, immortal, blessed, beatific, beatified, spiritual, saintly; supernal, unearthly, other-worldly, ultramundane, extramundane, extraterrestrial: Alone on the mountain, she heard a heavenly voice calling her name. 2 delightful, wonderful, marvellous, sublime, paradisiac(al) or paradisaic(al), glorious, splendid, superb, exquisite, perfect, ideal, excellent, fantastic, rapturous, entrancing, blissful, Colloq gorgeous, divine, smashing, great: Andr's serves a perfectly heavenly lobster thermidor.
heavy-handed adj. 1 awkward, clumsy, inept, maladroit, unskilful, ungraceful, graceless, bungling: She made a heavy-handed attempt to apologize. 2 autocratic, imperious, magisterial, overbearing, despotic, dictatorial, tyrannical, oppressive, domineering, iron-handed, harsh, severe: For more than 30 years he exercised heavy-handed control over the country.
hectic adj. feverish, excited, agitated, busy, bustling, rushed, hyperactive, over-active, frenzied, frantic, chaotic, wild, mad, frenetic, riotous: What with the new baby and everyone else having the flu, I've had a pretty hectic week.
heedless adj. inattentive, uncaring, unmindful, neglectful, unobservant, regardless; oblivious, deaf, blind: Heedless of tradition, they replaced the older buildings with council housing.
heel v. list, lean (over), tilt, tip, incline: The boat heeled as we turned to beat into the wind.
height n. 1 altitude, elevation, level; tallness: At what height is the second camp on Mount Everest? The height of the skyscrapers impressed me. 2 acme, crest, pinnacle, top, zenith, apogee, peak, apex, maximum, high point, summit, climax, culmination, extreme: Popularity of that style reached its height in the 1930s. His remark reflected the height of arrogance. 3 Often, heights. elevation, mound, hill, eminence, prominence, mountain, peak, crag, summit; tor, cliff, bluff, promontory, escarpment, scarp, headland, No. Brit fell: As we gazed down from the heights, the villages seemed tiny.
heir n. heiress, beneficiary, inheritor, legatee, successor: What if you are not the rightful heir to the estate?
helm n. 1 tiller, wheel, rudder, steering gear or apparatus: I had to put the helm over hard to avoid hitting the pier. 2 directorship, presidency, chairmanship, leadership, control, rule, command, Colloq driver's seat, saddle: Arthur remained at the helm of the company for 40 years.
helpful adj. useful, serviceable, practical, pragmatic, utilitarian, beneficial, valuable, profitable, advantageous, constructive, productive; supportive, reassuring, sympathetic, considerate, caring, accommodating, kind, considerate, cooperative, neighbourly, friendly, benevolent: A reference book might be helpful in answering that question. Mrs Carlyle gave me such helpful advice.
helpless adj. 1 dependent, vulnerable, weak, helpless, feeble, infirm, lame, crippled, disabled: The disease has left him completely helpless. 2 confused, baffled, mystified, bewildered, perplexed, at sea, confounded, muddled, nonplussed: I am completely helpless when it comes to balancing my accounts. 3 weakened, weak, debilitated, faint, enfeebled, feeble, worn out, spent, exhausted, prostrate, enervated: All of us were simply helpless from laughing so much. 4 worthless, incapable, incompetent, useless, unavailing, inefficient, inept, unfit, unqualified: Dali was said to be helpless without Gala to manage his affairs.
hence adv. 1 therefore, consequently, thus, accordingly, ergo, as a result, for that or this reason: She has homework to do, hence cannot go to the cinema. 2 away, from here or this place: Get thee hence, you wicked witch! 3 from now, in the future: Where will I be two years hence?
henchman n. (fellow-) mobster or gangster or hoodlum, gangster, bodyguard, myrmidon, right-hand man, associate, attendant, follower, supporter, confidant, crony, Colloq sidekick, hooligan, Brit minder, US buddy, cohort; Slang heavy, US torpedo, gunsel, goon: Mr Big strutted in with his henchmen and wrecked the place.
herd n. 1 group, pack, bunch, cluster, flock, crowd, multitude, host, horde, throng, mass, swarm, press, crush; assemblage, collection: A herd of protesters gathered before the embassy. 2 common herd, rabble, hoi polloi, great unwashed, riff-raff, masses: How can you expect the herd to understand these principles? --v. 3 gather, congregate, flock, assemble, collect: The reporters herded round to interview the minister. 4 round up, gather (together), shepherd, drive, W US and Canadian wrangle, corral: Herd those cattle into the pen.
heretical adj. unorthodox, heterodox, impious, freethinking, heretic, apostate or apostatical, iconoclastic, schismatic, sceptic, agnostic, atheist(ic), idolatrous, heathen, pagan, infidel, godless: The purpose of the Inquisition was to discover and suppress heretical views.
hermetic adj. hermetical, airtight, sealed; impervious: If the hermetic seal is broken, sterility is not guaranteed.
hero n. 1 heroine, champion, exemplar, star, superstar, idol, ideal, man of the hour, luminary, notable, celebrity; knight, paladin, warrior: She was a hero to every aspiring woman lawyer. She expects a hero in shining armour on a white horse to sweep her off her feet. 2 protagonist, (male) lead or star, leading man or actor, principal: Grard Depardieu plays the hero in this lavishly produced film.
heroine n. (female) lead, leading actress or lady, prima donna or ballerina, premire danseuse, diva: The heroine was played by Mme Kropeczka.
hesitate v. 1 delay, hold or hang back, pause, dilly-dally, wait, temporize, think twice, balk, boggle at, shrink from, demur, scruple, Brit haver, jib, Colloq stall: He who hesitates is lost. 2 fumble, equivocate, tergiversate, fluctuate, alternate, waver, dither, vacillate, shilly-shally: He hesitated between the doors - did this one conceal the lady or the tiger? 3 stammer, stutter, falter, sputter, splutter, stumble, hem and haw: She hesitated throughout the speech purely from stage fright.
hide v. 1 conceal, secrete, cache, squirrel away; go underground, take cover, lie low, go into hiding, lurk, go to ground, drop out of sight, go into hiding, hibernate, latibulize, Colloq hide out, hole up, lie low, Brit lie doggo: Hide the sweets where the children won't find them. I found a place to hide under the stair. 2 conceal, cover, mask, camouflage, disguise, veil, shroud, screen, cover up, keep secret: He managed to hide his embarrassment. 3 eclipse, blot out, obscure, block: The clouds hid the moon as we made good our escape. 4 suppress, hush (up), repress, silence, keep quiet or secret: She hid all knowledge of the crime.
hideaway n. refuge, retreat, sanctuary, hide-out, hiding-place, lair, (safe) haven, Colloq hole, Brit hidey-hole or hidy-hole: My brother and I would crawl into our hideaway and pretend we were being held prisoner by pirates.
hideous adj. 1 grotesque, ugly, repulsive, revolting, repellent, monstrous, beastly, gorgonian, unsightly, ghastly, disgusting, grisly, nauseating, nauseous, sickening, gruesome: Suddenly, a hideous face appeared at the kitchen window. 2 foul, abhorrent, heinous, horrifying, appalling, outrageous, abominable, vile, shocking, loathsome, contemptible, hateful, odious, atrocious, horrific, beastly, damnable, execrable: Two hideous crimes were committed here last night.
highbrow n. 1 scholar, intellectual, savant, sage, mastermind, genius; aesthete, connoisseur, Colloq egghead, brain: Many who pretend to deride highbrows secretly envy them. --adj. 2 scholarly, intellectual, learned, erudite, deep, bookish, cultured, sophisticated, cultivated, aesthetic, Colloq brainy: Books on philosophy are too highbrow for the market we cater to.
highly adv. 1 greatly, much, tremendously, well, enthusiastically, warmly, immensely, hugely: Her play was highly praised by all the critics. 2 very, extremely, quite, exceptionally, extraordinarily, incomparably, decidedly: It is highly unlikely that I shall come to your party. 3 favourably, well, enthusiastically, approvingly, warmly, praisefully: They seem to think highly of him at the office. 4 well, influentially, powerfully, strongly, authoritatively, effectively, importantly: I have the information from a highly placed government official.
hilarity n. laughter, gaiety, joviality, jollity, merriment, mirth, exuberance, glee, boisterousness, cheerfulness, joyfulness, jubilation, elation, revelry, conviviality, high spirits, vivacity, exhilaration: Thurgood did not join in the hilarity of his retirement party.
hinder v. 1 hamper, delay, interrupt, impede, interfere with, foil, thwart, frustrate, forestall, bar, stymie, check, balk or baulk, encumber, obstruct, handicap, set or keep or put or hold back, defer, retard, restrain, slow, postpone: The difficulty of the task should not hinder the attempt. 2 stop, prevent, check, preclude, arrest; discourage, deter, inhibit, obviate: Does the threat of capital punishment hinder people from committing murder?
hint n. 1 suggestion, clue, implication, inkling, indication, tip, tip-off, intimation, allusion, innuendo, insinuation; pointer, help, advice: The quiz-master gave me a hint and I got the answer at once. 2 trace, suggestion, touch, taste, breath, dash, soupon, whiff, undertone, tinge, whisper: Which government has ever served without any hint of scandal? --v. 3 suggest, imply, indicate, tip (off), intimate, allude, insinuate, mention, clue, cue, signal, refer, advert: She hinted that I might appeal to her sister.
hippie n. bohemian, Old-fashioned drop-out, beatnik, beat, longhair, flower child or person, hipster: A few hippies were playing their guitars at the street corner.
hiss n. 1 hissing, sibilance: Serpents and geese make a sound like a hiss. 2 catcall, jeer, boo, hoot, Slang raspberry, US Bronx cheer: The villain was greeted by hisses from the audience. --v. 3 boo, hoot, jeer, deride, mock, taunt, decry, disparage: The workers hissed and booed the speaker.
historical adj. factual, true, verifiable, reliable, real, authentic, recorded, documented: The historical truth of what actually happened on that day has been obscured by legends.
hit v. 1 strike, cuff, smack, knock, whack, bash, bang, thump, thwack, punch, buffet, slap, swat, bludgeon, club, smite; spank, thrash, beat, pummel, batter, flog, scourge, birch, cane, lash, belabour, flagellate, whip, horsewhip, cudgel, Archaic fustigate; Colloq belt, wallop, clobber, clout, sock, clip, crown, bop, conk, paste, lambaste, zap: She hit him on the jaw and he went down. 2 strike, bat, swat, knock, drive, propel: He hit the ball over the heads of the fielders. 3 strike, collide or impact with, run or smash or crash into, bump or bang into: The car went off the road and hit a tree. 4 affect, touch, stir, move, wound, hurt, strike or hit home, make or leave an impression or a mark on, (make an) impact (on): The new taxes hit the wealthy more than the poor. 5 dawn on, enter one's mind, occur to, strike: It finally hit Graham that he had been insulted. 6 reach, attain, arrive at, gain, achieve: Those who have hit eighty know the meaning of old age. She hit the jackpot this week. 7 experience, encounter, meet (with): It was at that point that we hit a snag in the negotiations. 8 Also, hit up. importune, beseech, petition, beg, implore, entreat, ask for: As usual, Guthrie hit me for a loan as soon as we met. 9 hit on or upon. a come or happen or chance or light on or upon, discover, find, uncover, unearth, stumble or blunder on or upon, arrive at: After years of experimentation, the Curies hit upon pitchblende as a source of radium. b devise, think of or up, invent, dream up, come up with, work out, see, perceive, detect, discern, find: I have hit upon a way to counteract the force of gravity. --n. 10 impact, collision; blow, punch, knock, strike, swat, shot, smack, bump, bang, Colloq whack, thwack, conk, bop, sock: The weakness of the hit caused only a slight dent in my car door. The boxer reeled after a hard hit to the midriff. 11 success, triumph, coup, winner, sensation, Colloq smash (hit), sell-out: After opening in the West End the musical became a hit on Broadway. 12 kick, jolt, thrill, Slang charge, US rush, bang: Give me a hit off that reefer.
hoard n. 1 supply, stock, store, stockpile, reserve, fund, reservoir, accumulation, collection, cache: They kept a hoard of food in the shelter in case of attack. Occasionally, farmers turn up a hoard of gold coins buried by the ancient Romans. --v. 2 amass, collect, accumulate, pile (up), assemble, gather, put away, stockpile, store, reserve, set aside, save (up), squirrel away, lay in or away or aside or up, Colloq stash away: Hoarding food was against the law during rationing.
hobble v. 1 limp, falter, dodder, totter, stagger, reel, weave, stumble, shuffle, shamble: I hobbled about on crutches for weeks. 2 shackle, fetter, restrain, restrict, hamper, hinder, impede, trammel: As hobbled horses do not stray, she tried to think of some way to hobble Clarence's errant ways. --n. 3 limp, shuffle, shamble, claudication, stagger: With the leg-irons on, I could walk only with a jerking hobble.
hobnob v. associate, fraternize, socialize, consort, mingle, rub elbows or shoulders, mix, hang about or around, keep company: He hobnobs with the aristocrats.
hoggish adj. piggish, greedy, avaricious, insatiable, gluttonous, voracious, edacious, acquisitive, possessive, self-seeking, selfish: Don't be so hoggish; share the cake with the others.
hoist v. 1 lift (up), elevate, raise, heave, uplift, winch: The lifeboat with the survivors aboard is now being hoisted onto the rescue vessel. --n. 2 crane, lift, elevator, davit, winch, tackle: The cable of the hoist broke, and the container dropped onto the pier. hoity-toity adj. haughty, arrogant, overweening, snobbish, disdainful, supercilious, conceited, lofty, superior, self-important, Colloq high and mighty, stuck-up, snooty, uppity or chiefly Brit uppish, Brit toffee-nosed, Slang snotty: Eleanor became very hoity-toity after her husband got his knighthood.
hold-up n. 1 (armed) robbery, Colloq stick-up, mugging, US heist: The robbers escaped with my gold watch in the hold-up. 2 delay, set-back, hitch, snag, interruption, lacuna, gap, hiatus, break, stoppage: The cause of the hold-up was an overturned van.
holiday n. 1 time off, break, recess, respite, leave (of absence), furlough, sabbatical, Chiefly US vacation: We spent our holiday in Ibiza this year. 2 festival, feast, celebration, fte or fete; gala, fair, red-letter day, event: Where are you going over the Christmas holiday?
holocaust n. 1 conflagration, fire-storm, inferno, fire; destruction, devastation: When the volcano exploded, few escaped the holocaust. 2 genocide, mass murder, massacre, blood bath, pogrom, butchery, carnage, annihilation, extinction, extermination, eradication, elimination: Survivors of the Nazi holocaust hold periodic memorial services.
homage n. obeisance, respect, deference, honour, esteem, admiration; loyalty, allegiance, fidelity, tribute: Today we pay homage to those who fought and died so that we might be free.
homeless adj. 1 dispossessed, outcast, exiled, vagabond, derelict, unsettled; unhoused: Their houses destroyed in the war, homeless people wandered everywhere. --n. 2 the homeless. knights of the road, vagrants, vagabonds, tramps, US bums, hoboes: There are not enough shelters for the homeless.
homesick adj. nostalgic, longing, pining, lonely, lonesome; wistful, reminiscent: I was homesick for the smell and taste of a good haggis.
homicidal adj. murderous, lethal, deadly, death-dealing, mortal, blood-thirsty, sanguinary, ferocious, maniacal, berserk, amok or amuck, mad, insane: The doctors say he is homicidal and should be institutionalized.
homosexual n. 1 gay, homophile; lesbian, tribade, sapphist; All the following are offensive and derogatory pervert, invert, Slang queer, fairy, pansy, nancy, nance, queen, drag queen, homo; butch, (bull) dyke; Brit poof, poofter, ginger (beer), US fruit, auntie, fag, faggot: We suspected that he was a closet homosexual. --adj. 2 (of either sex) gay, homoerotic, homophile; (of a female) lesbian, tribadic, sapphic; (of a male) effeminate; All the following are offensive and derogatory perverted, inverted, Colloq chiefly Brit bent, Slang queer, camp, campy, faggy, kinky, Chiefly US fruity, limp-wristed, faggy, swish, swishy: We never knew of her homosexual tendencies.
honestly adv. 1 truthfully, honourably, creditably, decently, ethically, morally, uprightly, dependably, reliably, in good faith, justly, fairly, equitably, even-handedly, disinterestedly, objectively, impartially: In general, the police deal honestly with suspects. 2 candidly, frankly, openly, straightforwardly, forthrightly, sincerely, truly, ingenuously, unreservedly, above-board, unambiguously, unequivocally, plainly, simply, straight (out), to one's face, in plain words or English, bluntly: I tell you honestly that I have never heard of the man.
honorarium n. (token) fee, compensation, recompense, pay, payment, remuneration, emolument: Would you be willing to accept an honorarium in lieu of your usual fee?
honour n. 1 integrity, honesty, fairness, justness, probity, uprightness, decency, goodness, righteousness, rectitude, justice, morality, principles, virtuousness, virtue: Doing the right thing is a matter of honour. 2 respect, esteem, reverence, veneration, approbation, deference, admiration, homage, regard, accolade, praise, kudos, fame, glory, celebrity, distinction, prestige, illustriousness: Great honour accompanies the award of a Nobel prize. 3 privilege, distinction, pleasure, joy, delight; credit, blessing: I have the honour to introduce tonight's speaker. It has been an honour to serve under you, Admiral. 4 virginity, chastity, virtue, purity, innocence: How did she manage to preserve her honour when fighting with the partisans? --v. 5 respect, esteem, revere, venerate, adulate, adore, worship, approve, prize, value, defer to, admire, pay homage to: Albert Schweitzer was much honoured in the latter part of his life. 6 praise, laud, glorify, celebrate, eulogize, salute, hail, acclaim, ennoble, dignify, exalt: We have come together to honour those who have died for their country. 7 keep, maintain, carry out, live up to, discharge, fulfil, observe, meet: She has done her best to honour her obligations. 8 pay, redeem, accept, clear, cash: The bank refused to honour his cheque because of 'insufficient funds'.
hoodlum n. gangster, thug, racketeer, mobster, desperado, terrorist, ruffian, tough, rowdy, knave, Colloq hooligan, baddy, crook, US plug-ugly, Slang goon, Brit yob, yobbo, US mug, bad actor, roughneck, hood, gunsel, hit man, torpedo, French apache, Australian larrikin: He has a few hoodlums on the payroll who do the dirty work.
hook n. 1 hanger, peg, holder; fastener, catch, clasp, clip, pin: Hang your hat on that hook. I'm using a safety pin because the hook on my dress is gone. 2 snare, trap; fish-hook: What can we use as a hook to catch the fish? 3 by hook or by crook. somehow (or other), someway, come what may, by fair means or foul, (by) one way or another: I have to get out of this place by hook or by crook. 4 hook, line, and sinker. completely, entirely, all the way, through and through, thoroughly, entirely, totally, utterly, wholly: She actually fell for that old routine hook, line, and sinker. 5 off the hook. (set) free, (in the) clear, out of it; out of trouble, acquitted, exonerated, cleared, let off, vindicated, off: After paying them the extortion money, he still wasn't off the hook. --v. 6 catch, trap, entrap, snare, ensnare; grab, capture, collar, nab, seize; Chiefly US and Canadian snag, Colloq pinch: The petty crooks have been caught but we now want to hook the big fish himself. 7 steal, pilfer, filch, palm, shoplift, rob, Slang snitch, rip off, Euphemistic liberate, remove, borrow, appropriate, Brit nick, Chiefly Brit pinch: They used to hook sweets from Woolies'.
hope n. 1 desire, wish, expectation, yearning, hankering, craving, longing, fancy; ambition, (day)dream: It was always my hope that you would go to university. 2 prospect, promise, expectation, expectancy, confidence, anticipation, assumption, security, faith, conviction, belief, trust: We had given up hope of being rescued. --v. 3 aspire, count or rely on or upon, anticipate, contemplate, foresee, look forward to, expect, await, wait: After all these years, he is still hoping to meet the girl of his dreams. 4 trust; wish, want, desire; Dialect expect: I hope my ship will come in soon. I hope to see the last of her tomorrow.
hopefully adv. 1 expectantly, optimistically, sanguinely, confidently: Jocelyn set off hopefully for the party. 2 with (any) luck, if things go well, all being well, it is hoped, expectedly: Hopefully, we shall arrive in time to catch the train.
horizon n. view, purview, range, scope, vista, compass, perspective, prospect, ken, field of vision, limit(s): This is something that lies beyond the horizon of present-day knowledge.
horrible adj. 1 awful, horrendous, horrid, horrifying, horrific, terrible, terrifying, dreadful, abominable, abhorrent, appalling, frightening, frightful, ghastly, grim, grisly, ghoulish, gruesome, loathsome, hideous, repulsive, revolting, disgusting, sickening, nauseating, nauseous, harrowing, blood-curdling, macabre, unspeakable, shocking: The horrible sight of her father's mangled body haunted her for the rest of her days. 2 awful, nasty, unpleasant, disagreeable, horrid, terrible, dreadful, obnoxious, offensive, atrocious, monstrous, contemptible, detestable, despicable, Colloq Brit beastly: The food was perfectly horrible at our hotel. Take that horrible little dog away.
horror n. 1 fear and loathing, repugnance, terror, dread, hatred, revulsion, detestation, abhorrence, distaste, dislike; aversion, antipathy, hostility, animosity, animus, rancour; odium, execration: She has a horror of bats. 2 fear, dismay, distress, dread, fright, alarm, upset, perturbation, panic, terror, fear and trembling, trepidation, anxiety, angst, apprehension, uneasiness, queasiness, nervousness, awe: The doctor helped me overcome my horror of flying.
hospitable adj. 1 welcoming, gracious, courteous, genial, friendly, agreeable, amicable, cordial, warm, congenial, sociable, generous: It was most hospitable of you to invite me. 2 open-minded, receptive, amenable, approachable, tolerant: The director is always hospitable to suggestions for improving sales.
hospitality n. graciousness, courtesy, courteousness, friendliness, amicability, cordiality, warmth, congeniality, sociability, generosity: I am grateful for the hospitality you showed my sister during her visit.
host n. army, swarm, crowd, horde, multitude, throng, mob, pack, herd, troop, legion, body, assembly, assemblage, drove: The rock group turned up with a host of followers, their so-called groupies.
hostile adj. 1 opposed, antagonistic, contrary, against, anti, adverse; averse, loath: The government is hostile to curbs on business. 2 unfriendly, inimical, unsympathetic, cold, inhospitable; unfavourable: Why do many social workers seem hostile to the people they are supposed to help? The polar regions are very hostile environments to man. 3 warring, belligerent, bellicose, warlike, combative, militant, aggressive: The UN units function as a buffer between the hostile forces.
hot adj. 1 fiery, white-hot, red-hot, piping hot, burning, blistering, scorching, roasting, frying, sizzling, searing, boiling, scalding, steaming, simmering, torrid, sweltering, sultry, heated: The hot, molten steel is cast into ingots here. During the day it is hot, but it cools down at night. 2 spicy, peppery, sharp, piquant, pungent, biting, acrid: She likes very hot food, with plenty of chilli. 3 intense, fervent, zealous, ardent, enthusiastic, passionate, fervid, vehement, excited, animated; impetuous, fiery, fierce, inflamed, sharp, violent: He had some hot words with the foreman who had dismissed him. 4 eager, keen, avid, anxious, burning; intense, fervent, zealous, ardent, enthusiastic, passionate, fervid, vehement, excited, animated, earnest, Slang US gung-ho: Desmond set out in hot pursuit of the thief. 5 recent, fresh, new, latest, brand-new: The hottest gossip is that she is marrying for the seventh time. 6 popular, sought-after, commercial, saleable, marketable: The publisher believes Zenobia's Memoirs to be the hot property of the year. 7 lustful, lecherous, libidinous, lubricous or lubricious, sensual, concupiscent, prurient, licentious, oversexed, sex-crazed, sex-mad, Archaic lickerish, horn-mad, Slang horny, Chiefly Brit randy, US hard up: They were really hot, not having been with anyone of the opposite sex for months. 8 intense, vivid, striking, bright, brilliant, dazzling, loud: That hot pink lipstick looks good with your suntan. 9 electrified, live, charged, powered: The hot wire connects to the other terminal - I think. 10 dangerous, precarious, risky, sensitive, delicate, unstable, touchy, unpredictable: The situation is getting a bit too hot to handle. --v. 11 hot up. intensify, build up, heighten, increase, worsen, warm up, heat up: The environment is hotting up as a political issue.
hotbed n. breeding ground, fertile source: Slums are a hotbed of crime.
hotel n. hostelry, inn, lodging, caravanserai; motel, motor hotel, bed and breakfast or B & B, guest-house, pension, Australian and New Zealand pub, US tourist house: We are staying at a small hotel just outside of town.
hothouse n. 1 hotbed, greenhouse, glasshouse, conservatory: These tomatoes were grown during the winter in our hothouse. --adj. 2 dainty, delicate, sensitive, fragile, frail, pampered, overprotected, sheltered, shielded, spoiled, coddled, babied: She was glad to exchange the hothouse atmosphere of the university for the real world.
hound v. bully, browbeat, persecute, nag, harass, annoy, pester, harry, badger: Although he was found innocent, his neighbours hounded him so much that he had to leave town.
housing n. 1 homes, houses, lodging(s), quarters, accommodation, habitation, dwelling; shelter, protection: The Council is trying to provide housing for the elderly. 2 case, casing, cover, covering, enclosure, container, box, shield: We keep the sensitive equipment in a dust-proof housing.
hover v. 1 drift, poise, float, hang, be or hang suspended, hang in the air: The humming bird hovers over a flower, drinking its nectar. 2 linger, loiter, wait, hang about or around: The waiter's constant hovering about is making me nervous.
howl v. 1 yowl, cry, wail, ululate, bay; shout, yell, bellow, scream, roar, Colloq holler: The wolves were howling at the moon last night. He howled with pain when he caught his finger in the door. --n. 2 yowl, yowling, ululation, ululating, wail, wailing, yelp, yelping, cry; shout, yell, bellow, scream, roar, Colloq holler: The wolf's howl is an eerie, chilling sound. I kicked him and he let out a howl.
hub n. centre, focus, focal point, pivot, heart, core, nucleus, nave: This is the hub of the city, around which everything else moves.
hue n. colour, tint, shade, tinge, tone, cast, tincture, Technical chroma: The dust in the atmosphere gives the sunsets a reddish hue.
hug v. 1 embrace, clasp, squeeze, cuddle, snuggle, Archaic or literary clip: They hugged each other warmly, then kissed goodbye. 2 follow closely, cling to, stay or keep near or close to: We hugged the ground as the bullets whizzed by overhead. --n. 3 embrace, clasp, squeeze, Colloq clinch: She saw me, ran over, and gave me a big hug.
hulk n. 1 shipwreck, wreck, derelict, shell, skeleton: The rusting hulk of the once-proud ship is tied up at the dock. 2 oaf, clod, lout, ox, Slang US galoot or galloot, klutz: Don't tell me that hulk of a man painted these delicate miniatures!
hull n. 1 framework, skeleton, frame, structure, body: The hull of the ship completed, we added the superstructure. 2 shell, pod, case, husk, skin, peel, rind, US shuck: Squirrels carefully nibble through the hull of the nut to get at the kernel inside. --v. 3 shell, peel, skin, husk, US shuck: We hulled all the nuts and they are now ready for the fruit cake.
human adj. 1 mortal, anthropoid, hominoid, android; hominid; Possibly offensive manlike: The aliens from the spaceship had few human characteristics. It is human nature to think. 2 sensitive, defenceless, weak, fallible, vulnerable: She is human, too, and can be easily hurt. 3 kind, kindly, kind-hearted, considerate, charitable, compassionate, merciful, benign, benignant, tender, gentle, forgiving, lenient, benevolent, beneficent, generous, magnanimous, humanitarian, understanding, accommodating, sympathetic, good-natured, humane, sensitive: Human concern for others is in short supply these days. --n. 4 human being, person, individual, woman, man, child, mortal, one, soul, someone, somebody: Humans have long maltreated many of the animals on which they depend.
humanity n. 1 human race, people, society, humankind, Homo sapiens; the public, the masses, community; Possibly offensive man, mankind: From what we are told, humanity took millions of years to evolve. 2 humanness, human nature, mortality: On his first voyage to Mars, Kollworth began to doubt his own humanity. 3 kindness, kindliness, kind-heartedness, consideration, helpfulness, charitableness, open-heartedness, warm-heartedness, good will, benevolence, compassion, mercifulness, mercy, benignity, tenderness, warmth, gentleness, leniency or lenience or lenity, beneficence, generosity, unselfishness, magnanimity, understanding, sympathy, sensitivity: It was owing to the humanity of our neighbours that we survived the bombing.
humdrum adj. dull, boring, tedious, tiresome, wearisome, monotonous, unvaried, unvarying, routine, undiversified, unchanging, repetitious, uneventful, unexciting, uninteresting, prosaic, mundane, ordinary, commonplace, common, banal, dry, insipid, jejune: They saw no way of escaping from their humdrum lives.
humiliation n. disgrace, shame, mortification, dishonour, ignominy, indignity, discredit, loss of face, obloquy, abasement, depreciation, detraction, degradation, derogation, belittlement, disparagement, shaming, embarrassment, humbling: He had to suffer the humiliation of being drummed out of the corps.
humorous adj. funny, comical, facetious, laughable, risible, ludicrous, farcical, side-splitting, hilarious, merry; droll, whimsical, amusing, witty, waggish, jocular, jocose, playful, pleasant, Colloq hysterical: The humorous parts of the play sent the audience into gales of laughter.
hump n. 1 bulge, lump, bump, protuberance, protrusion, projection, knob, node, mass, hunch, enlargement, swelling, growth, excrescence, tumefaction, tumescence; mound, barrow, tell, hummock, hillock, tumulus, Brit dialect tump: Digging into the hump near the trees, we uncovered an ancient burial-ground. --v. 2 hunch, arch, curve, crook, bend: Sulking in the corner, he humped his back and refused to speak to anyone. 3 drag, lug, haul, carry, heave: She had to hump two heavy suitcases all the way from the railway station.
hunger n. 1 hungriness, emptiness, appetite, ravenousness, voraciousness, voracity; famine, starvation: We ate leaves to stave off the pangs of hunger. Some optimists hope to eliminate hunger from the planet by the year 2000. 2 yearning, desire, craving, itch, thirst, longing, hankering, mania, cupidity, Formal cacoethes, Colloq yen: She felt an insatiable hunger for intellectual companionship. --v. 3 Usually, hunger for or after. crave, yearn, desire, thirst, want, hanker, Colloq yen, have a yen: Blessed are they who hunger and thirst after righteousness.
hunt v. 1 chase, pursue, dog, hound, stalk, trail, track (down), trace; course: The jewel thieves were hunted across three continents. 2 Also, hunt for or up or out or through. seek (out), search (for), go in search of or for, look (high and low) for, quest after, go in quest of, scour, ransack, investigate, pry into, go over or through with a fine-tooth comb, examine, explore, Colloq US check out: Detectives hunted the carpet for clues. She is hunting a job in publishing. I have hunted for the ring but cannot find it. Can you hunt up someone to fill the vacancy? Hunt through your pockets again for the key. --n. 3 chase, pursuit, tracking (down), stalking, hunting; course: The ten-year hunt for the thieves continues. 4 search, quest: My hunt ended when I found the ring.
hurdle n. 1 barrier, obstacle, impediment, hindrance, obstruction, bar, handicap, restraint, snag, (stumbling) block, check, difficulty, complication, interference: Can she overcome the hurdle of prejudice against women? --v. 2 leap (over), vault (over), jump (over): The fugitive easily hurdled the fence around the compound.
hurricane n. cyclone, tornado, typhoon, whirlwind, twister, wind-storm, storm, gale, blow: The 1985 hurricane destroyed millions of trees.
hurry v. 1 rush, hasten, make haste, speed, race, dash, hustle, scurry, tear, fly, run, shoot, scoot, scamper, scuttle, hotfoot (it), Colloq shake a leg, get cracking, get a move on, go hell for leather, skedaddle, step on it, step on the gas, Chiefly US hightail (it), go like greased lightning, get a wiggle on: You'll have to hurry to catch your bus. 2 speed up, accelerate, hasten, rush, push, press, expedite; urge, egg: Such changes take time and can't be hurried. She hurried the children along so that they wouldn't miss the bus. --n. 3 haste, rush, urgency, eagerness; agitation, disquiet, upset, dither, fuss, bustle, ado, to-do, furore or US furor, commotion, turmoil, stir, pother; Colloq stew, sweat: Why all the hurry to finish before dark? He's in an awful hurry to get home.
hurtful adj. 1 harmful, injurious, detrimental, pernicious, prejudicial, disadvantageous, damaging, deleterious, destructive, noisome, noxious, baneful, mischievous: Efficient government is advantageous to many and hurtful to none. 2 nasty, cruel, cutting, malicious, mean, unkind, wounding, spiteful: He made some hurtful accusations about the librarian's efficiency.
husband n. 1 mate, spouse, groom, bridegroom, partner, Colloq old man, hubby: My husband and I take turns cleaning the house. --v. 2 save, keep, retain, hoard, conserve, preserve, store; budget, economize (on), manage: If we husband our resources, we shall have enough for a rainy day.
husky adj. 1 brawny, strapping, sturdy, burly, well-built, robust, hefty, rugged, powerful, strong, stout, thickset, muscular, tough, Colloq beefy: Two husky men arrived to move the piano. 2 hoarse, gruff, dry, harsh, rasping, rough, raucous: She has a deep, husky voice I would recognize anywhere.
hut n. cabin, shack, shanty, shed, lean-to, shelter, cote, Literary cot, Australian gunyah: We found a tiny hut where we could keep out of the storm.
hygienic adj. clean, sanitary, sterile, disinfected, germ-free, aseptic, pure: It is essential that hygienic surroundings be maintained in hospitals.
hypocrisy n. deceit, deceitfulness, duplicity, double-dealing, deception, chicanery, guile, quackery, charlatanism or charlatanry, falseness, fakery, falseness, lying, mendacity, Pharisaism or Phariseeism, Tartuffery, insincerity, two-facedness, sanctimony, sanctimoniousness, Colloq phoneyness or US also phoniness: I loath hypocrisy and double standards.
hypocritical adj. deceptive, deceitful, deceiving, insincere, dissembling, feigning, dissimulating, double-dealing, false, fake, faking, two-faced, pretending, lying, mendacious, Pharisaic(al), sanctimonious, dishonest, underhand, treacherous, perfidious, untrustworthy: He regards the Victorians as nothing but smug prudes and hypocritical moralizers.
hypothetical adj. assumed, supposed, conjectural, conjectured, hypothesized, putative, surmised, assumed, presumed, suspected, imagined, guessed, speculative, speculated, theoretical, suppositional, suppositious or supposititious: Let us take the hypothetical case of someone, for example, who refuses to pay income tax.
icing n. 1 frosting, glaze, coating: Our favourite treat was chocolate cake with chocolate icing. 2 bonus, (fringe) benefit, reward, (extra) added attraction, extra, reward, dividend: He clinched a seventh victory with his partner, putting the icing on the cake of their shared world championship.
idea n. 1 concept, conception, construct, thought, notion, plan, design, scheme, suggestion, recommendation: Is that your idea of a good singing voice? Peter has an excellent idea for increasing sales. 2 notion, fancy, impression, picture, (mental) image, concept, conception, perception, understanding, awareness, apprehension, inkling, suspicion, hint, suggestion, approximation, clue, intimation, guess, estimate, estimation, impression: I haven't the slightest idea what you are talking about. Can you give us any idea of the cause of the delay? 3 belief, opinion, sentiment, feeling, teaching(s), doctrine, tenet, principle, philosophy, view, viewpoint, outlook, notion, conviction, position, stance: Western and Eastern ideas differ as to the role of women in society. 4 aim, goal, purpose, objective, object, end, point, reason, raison d'tre: What was the idea of telling the teacher? The idea behind the scheme was to boost sales. The idea of the game is to capture your opponent's king. 5 hypothesis, theory, notion, dream, fantasy or phantasy: His invention is based on the idea of an anti-gravity device.
idealistic adj. visionary, romantic, romanticized, optimistic, starry-eyed, quixotic, Panglossian, impractical, unrealistic: He is idealistic enough to believe that people are basically good.
ideally adv. 1 under or in the best of circumstances, at best, in a perfect world, all things being equal: Ideally, February is the time to holiday in the Caribbean. 2 theoretically, in theory, in principle: Ideally, people ought to have money before they are too old to enjoy it. 3 perfectly: John and Marsha are ideally suited to each other.
identification n. 1 connection, recognition, distinguishing, indication, perception, detection, selection, naming, labelling, pinpointing, designation, characterization, denomination; authentication, verification, establishment, certification, substantiation, corroboration, Colloq fingering: Her identification of him as her attacker is not sufficient to convict him. 2 classification, classifying, cataloguing, categorization, categorizing, pigeon-holing: How much time is needed for the identification of the minerals in the moon rocks? 3 ID, ID card, identity card, badge, credentials: Only up-to-date identification will be accepted as proof of ownership. 4 connection, association, affiliation, empathy, sympathy, rapport, relationship: His continued identification with comic-book heroes is immature.
identity n. 1 sameness, oneness, unanimity, indistinguishability, agreement, accord, congruence: Identity of purpose held them together under stress. 2 personality, individuality, distinctiveness, uniqueness, particularity, singularity: Many who join the army lose their identity.
idiom n. 1 language, tongue, speech, vernacular, dialect, argot, patois, jargon, cant, idiolect, parlance, faon de parler, phraseology: The play is written in a rather old-fashioned idiom. 2 expression, (set) phrase, phrasing, locution, clich: The term red herring , an idiom meaning 'false trail', is used of something which is neither red nor a herring.
idleness n. 1 inactivity, inaction, lethargy, torpor, indolence, laziness, sluggishness, sloth, slothfulness, shiftlessness, inertia, lassitude, torpor, flnerie, dolce far niente; unemployment, Colloq US lallygagging or lollygagging, Military slang US gold-bricking: The strike created enforced idleness for non-union workers as well. 2 shirking, malingering, dawdling, loafing, time-wasting, lazing, Colloq dilly-dallying, shilly-shallying, Brit skiving: The foreman warned that he would not tolerate idleness.
idly adv. 1 unproductively, lazily, indolently: She wanders about the shops, idly whiling away the hours. 2 offhandedly, unconsciously, mechanically, thoughtlessly, unthinkingly, obliviously, insensibly, indifferently: He sat quietly, his fingers idly drumming on the tabletop.
idolize v. adore, admire, adulate, worship, revere, reverence, venerate, put on a pedestal, exalt, glorify, deify, lionize, look up to, apotheosize: She had always idolized her father, and his death came as a terrible blow to her.
ignorance n. unfamiliarity, unawareness, unconsciousness, benightedness, unenlightenment, inexperience, greenness: Ignorance of the law is no excuse. Mistakes are often caused by ignorance rather than stupidity.
ignore v. 1 disregard, overlook, pass over or by, turn a blind eye to, be blind to, turn one's back on, turn a deaf ear to, wink at, brush off or aside: If you are over 65, you may ignore this paragraph. 2 snub, give (someone) the cold shoulder, reject, send to Coventry, turn one's back on, Colloq give (someone) the brush-off or go-by, cut, turn one's nose up at: I don't care if you are cruel to me, just don't ignore me.
ill-advised adj. 1 inadvisable, ill-judged, injudicious, ill-considered, misguided, unwise, imprudent, inappropriate, unpropitious, inexpedient, impolitic, wrong-headed, thoughtless; indiscreet: It would be ill-advised to sell your house at this time. 2 hasty, rash, reckless, impetuous, rash, foolhardy, incautious, short-sighted, improvident: Driving without a seat belt is ill-advised.
illegible adj. unreadable, unintelligible, indecipherable or undecipherable, incomprehensible: An illegible message was scrawled on the wall.
ill-founded adj. groundless, baseless, without foundation, unsupported, unsubstantiated, empty, unjustified, unproven, uncorroborated, unsound, erroneous: He wasted a great deal of time refuting her ill-founded accusations.
illiterate adj. unlettered, analphabetic; unschooled, untaught, uneducated, benighted, ignorant, unenlightened: She teaches illiterate people to read.
illness n. sickness, disease, disorder, affliction, ailment, malady, complaint, infirmity, disability, indisposition, affection, Colloq bug: His illness is serious but not contagious.
illuminate v. 1 light (up), brighten, lighten, throw or cast or shed light on or upon: She had only a single candle to illuminate her sewing. 2 clarify, throw or cast or shed light on or upon, enlighten, clear up, elucidate, explain, explicate, reveal: The lectures on Heidegger illuminated his philosophy to some extent. 3 rubricate, decorate, adorn, embellish, ornament: The museum has the best collection of illuminated manuscripts.
illusion n. 1 deception, delusion, fancy, misconception, misapprehension, fallacy, error, mistake, mistaken or false impression: He is labouring under the illusion that he is a great pianist. 2 fantasy, day-dream, hallucination, phantasm, phantom, chimera, phantasmagoria, mirage, aberration, vision, spectre, figment of the imagination, will-o'-the-wisp, ignis fatuus: For years after he died, she had the illusion of seeing her father everywhere.
illustrate v. 1 instance, exemplify, demonstrate: Let me illustrate my point with the following example. 2 picture, illuminate, grangerize; decorate, embellish, emblazon, ornament, adorn: We are looking for an artist to illustrate the book.
illustrious adj. distinguished, famous, noted, renowned, famed, eminent, well-known, prominent, important, notable, respected, esteemed, venerable, honoured, acclaimed, celebrated, great: He belongs in the same category as other illustrious generals, like Kitchener.
image n. 1 likeness, representation, picture, sculpture, statue, effigy, figure, portrait, simulacrum; icon or ikon, idol, graven image, fetish, tiki: Images of Bolvar can be seen in every town square in Venezuela. The tribesmen still worshipped golden images of their gods. 2 epitome, duplicate, copy, counterpart, facsimile, replica, double, twin, Doppelgnger, clone, Colloq spitting image or spit and image, (dead) ringer: He's the image of father. He stared at his image in the mirror. 3 impression, concept, conception, perception, idea, perception, notion, mental picture: You are quite different from my image of you. 4 epitome, representative, model, (typical) example, essence, archetype, embodiment, incarnation, personification, materialization, reification, corporealization: For us, she was the very image of what a leader should be. 5 figure (of speech), trope, metaphor, allusion, simile, symbol: The poem contains images that are obscure unless you know Greek myths. 6 form, appearance, likeness, guise, semblance, aspect, mould, cast: Man claims to be created in God's image.
imaginary adj. fictitious, fanciful, fancied, chimerical, imagined, fictive, illusory or illusive, visionary, made-up, unreal, untrue, mythical or mythic, notional, abstract; legendary, mythological: When he was a boy, he had an imaginary friend called Carbonario.
imaginative adj. 1 creative, original, clever, ingenious, inventive, innovative, inspired, inspiring, enterprising, resourceful: Richard is a highly imaginative computer programmer. 2 fanciful, fantastic, visionary, poetic(al), whimsical, contrived, fictitious, fictional: The imaginative tale of Don Quixote sprang from the mind of Cervantes.
imitate v. 1 mimic, copy, ape, parrot, monkey, emulate, impersonate, do an impression of; echo, simulate: Cruikshank was imitating the boss, who walked in at that very moment. His style imitates that of Carlyle. 2 copy, mimic, mock, parody, satirize, burlesque, caricature, travesty, Colloq spoof, take off, Brit send up: In Hudibras, Samuel Butler imitated the style of the heroic epic.
immaculate adj. 1 spotless, stainless, unblemished, pure, clean, untarnished, unsullied, unsoiled, snow-white, spick and span, dapper, spruce; tidy, neat: Each morning he donned an immaculate uniform. 2 pure, chaste, innocent, virginal, virtuous, vestal, pristine, undefiled, untainted, unspoiled, unblemished, stainless, unadulterated: He remained convinced of his wife's immaculate reputation. 3 faultless, flawless, perfect, errorless, impeccable: His essay on Gibbon is an example of immaculate scholarship.
immature adj. 1 premature, undeveloped, unripe, rudimentary, half-grown, unformed, unfledged, fledgling, unfinished, young, new, fresh, incomplete: The immature growth in the spring is not hardy enough to survive a frost. 2 green, callow, unsophisticated, nave, jejune, inexperienced, babyish, childish, childlike, puerile, juvenile, raw, Colloq wet behind the ears: She is a bit immature to assume so many responsibilities.
immediate adj. 1 instantaneous, instant, abrupt, sudden, swift; spontaneous, instinctive, triggered, unhesitating, unthinking, automatic, reflex, knee-jerk: Why is your immediate reaction always to say 'It cannot be done'? 2 direct, nearest, next, closest, adjacent, proximate; nearby: Although he had cancer, the immediate cause of death was pneumonia. Is there a phone box in the immediate vicinity? 3 existing, present, current, actual, pressing, urgent: The immediate problem is to find a way of getting out of here.
immense adj. enormous, gigantic, extensive, vast, huge, massive, voluminous, tremendous, staggering, stupendous, mammoth, colossal, giant, titanic, Cyclopean, jumbo, elephantine, Brobdingnagian, Slang US humongous: Our exit from the cave was blocked by an immense boulder.
immigrant n. newcomer, arrival, settler, Australian migrant; alien, foreigner, outlander, outsider: Her parents were immigrants from the Ukraine.
immoderate adj. excessive, extreme, exorbitant, unreasonable, inordinate, extravagant, intemperate; outrageous, preposterous, exaggerated, unrestrained, undue: Their immoderate demands for reparations cannot be met.
immoral adj. 1 corrupt, bad, wicked, evil, iniquitous, sinful, impure, unethical, unprincipled, abandoned, base, wrong, vile, depraved, dissolute, degenerate, reprobate, unregenerate, nefarious, flagitious, villainous, treacherous, unscrupulous, dishonest: Is it immoral to avoid paying one's taxes? 2 immodest, debauched, indecent, wanton, libertine, lecherous, lustful, libidinous, carnal, concupiscent, salacious, licentious, lascivious, lewd, obscene, pornographic, dirty, smutty, filthy: He was convicted for living off immoral earnings.
immortalize v. celebrate, honour, glorify, memorialize, commemorate, apotheosize, canonize, beatify, exalt, ennoble, extol: Dickens's father was immortalized as Mr Micawber.
immune adj. inoculated, vaccinated; exempt, safe, protected, insusceptible or unsusceptible, invulnerable, untouched, unaffected: She never caught smallpox because a mild case of cowpox had made her immune. Rick mistakenly thought himself immune to Sally's charms.
imp n. devil(kin), demon, sprite, evil spirit, hobgoblin, goblin, elf, pixie or pixy, leprechaun, puck, brownie, fairy; scamp, urchin, gamin, rogue, rascal, mischief-maker, brat: Sitting on my shoulder as I write is a tiny imp that inserts the misspellings. Give me a hug, you little imp!
impair v. weaken, cripple, damage, harm, mar, injure, spoil, ruin: 'I understand that leading a wild life can impair your hearing.' 'What did you say?'
impale v. spear, stab, pierce, skewer, spit, stick, transfix, spike: They impaled the heads of their enemies on poles as a warning.
impartial adj. fair, just, even-handed, disinterested, neutral, unprejudiced, unbiased, objective, equitable: Judge Leaver can be relied on to render an impartial verdict.
impassioned adj. passionate, inspired, spirited, stirring, fervent, emotional, fervid, ardent, heated, warm, rousing, aroused, vehement, zealous, eager, earnest, enthusiastic, vigorous, animated, fiery, inflamed, glowing: The barrister made an impassioned plea for the accused.
impatient adj. 1 uneasy, nervous, fidgety, agitated, restless, restive, unquiet, eager, fretful, agog, chafing, impetuous, athirst, Slang itchy, US antsy: There is a short wait for seats, so please don't get impatient. 2 irritable, irascible, testy, short-tempered, querulous, waspish, brusque, curt, short, hot-tempered, snappish, indignant, demanding: I don't mean to be impatient, but I have been waiting for three hours.
impeccable adj. faultless, flawless, perfect, ideal, pure, correct, proper, spotless, immaculate, unblemished, spotless, unimpeachable, blameless: His lectures, though impeccable in content and style, lacked fire.
impediment n. bar, barrier, obstruction, block, check, hindrance, encumbrance, restraint, hold-up, hitch, snag, restriction, stricture, bottleneck, delay, hang-up, inhibition, curb: What are the impediments to a happy marriage?
imperative adj. 1 mandatory, compulsory, necessary, required, requisite, demanded, obligatory, indispensable, essential, crucial, vital, urgent, pressing, exigent: It is imperative that we catch the 5.04 to London. 2 imperious, commanding, authoritarian, overbearing, peremptory, autocratic, domineering, magisterial, lordly, arbitrary, dictatorial, dogmatic, tyrannical, despotic, Colloq bossy: We were all shaken into obedience by her imperative tone.
imperfect adj. wanting, unfinished, undeveloped, incomplete, deficient, defective, faulty, flawed, patchy: This is an imperfect translation of the poem.
imperial adj. 1 kingly, kinglike, queenly, queenlike, princely, princelike, regal, royal, sovereign: The imperial court was rich and splendid. 2 majestic, royal, regal, lofty, exalted, supreme, august, noble, superior, imposing, splendid, magnificent, grand, excellent: Her imperial presence outshone all at the ball.
impersonal adj. 1 detached, objective, disinterested, fair, equitable, dispassionate, unprejudiced, unbiased: The enforcement of the law should be entirely impersonal. 2 formal, stiff, strait-laced, wooden, rigid, prim, stuffy, cool, detached, unfriendly, cold, mechanical: Why does my bank manager have to be so impersonal?
impertinent adj. presumptuous, insolent, bold, brazen, impudent, brash, saucy, pert, uncivil, forward, impolite, discourteous, disrespectful, audacious, rude, Colloq cheeky, fresh, brassy, US nervy: That impertinent little upstart had the nerve to ask the lady's age!
impetus n. drive, stimulus, push, impulse, goad, thrust, energy, momentum, stimulation, incentive, motivation, encouragement, inspiration: Roger's innovative ideas provided the impetus to develop new products.
implacable adj. unappeasable, unmollifiable, unpacifiable, unforgiving, intractable, uncompromising, inflexible, inexorable, unyielding, unrelenting, ruthless, cruel, pitiless, merciless, hard, rigid, unsympathetic, uncompassionate: Ever since that incident at school he has been my implacable enemy.
implausible adj. improbable, unlikely, doubtful, dubious, questionable, unbelievable, incredible, far-fetched, unconvincing, debatable, unreasonable: He told an implausible tale of having been raised by apes.
implicate v. 1 involve, include, associate, embroil, ensnare, entrap, enmesh, entangle: Don't implicate me in your hare-brained schemes! 2 incriminate, inculpate, connect, involve, associate, suspect, concern: Wasn't he implicated in that fraud case last year?
implicit adj. 1 implied, indirect, inferable, understood, unspoken, undeclared, tacit, inherent, inferential, latent: Certain provisions are implicit in every legal contract and need not be expressed. 2 absolute, unquestioning, unquestioned, unqualified, total, sheer, complete, unmitigated, unalloyed, undiluted, unlimited, unconditional, unreserved, utter, full, wholehearted: I have implicit faith in Nicole's judgement.
impolite adj. discourteous, ill-mannered, uncivil, rude, ungracious, ungentlemanly, unladylike, pert, disrespectful, saucy, boorish, churlish, crude, indecorous, indelicate, unrefined, ill-bred, vulgar, coarse: The waiter was so impolite that I refused him a tip.
import v. 1 introduce, bring in: We import the raw materials and export the finished product. 2 convey, mean, signify, denote, imply, betoken: He was a dictator, in all the senses that word imports. --n. 3 meaning, sense, denotation, signification, gist, drift, thrust, intention, implication, purport, connotation, suggestion, allusion, intimation: It was difficult for me to catch the import of her words. 4 importance, significance, weight, consequence, moment, substance: One could see at once that she was a personage of some import.
important adj. 1 significant, consequential, critical, material, vital, urgent, portentous, weighty, grave, substantial, momentous, signal: If it is important, put it in writing. 2 leading, prominent, notable, noted, noteworthy, worthy, eminent, distinguished, respected, high-ranking, top-level, high-level, superior, outstanding, foremost, conspicuous, impressive: She is the most important member of the committee. 3 influential, effective, well-connected, powerful, formidable, mighty, impressive: With those important politicians supporting him, he might win.
imposing adj. grand, magnificent, impressive, stately, august, majestic, effective, commanding: In his dress uniform, the general was an imposing presence at the reception.
impossible adj. 1 hopeless, impracticable, inconceivable, unimaginable, unthinkable, unattainable, unsuitable, out of the question, unachievable, unrealizable, unworkable, unresolvable, unsolvable: Reading of the cipher is impossible without a key. 2 absurd, ludicrous, preposterous, ridiculous, illogical, unworkable, outrageous, farcical, outlandish, crazy, weird: Inventors came up with the most impossible designs for aeroplanes.
impotence n. 1 weakness, powerlessness, helplessness, frailty, feebleness, enervation, debilitation: The doctor said that his impotence was caused by exhaustion. 2 impotency, inadequacy, inefficacy, ineffectualness, ineffectiveness, ineptness, incompetence: Georgiana was frustrated by her impotence in dealing with the situation. 3 sterility, infertility: Eating raw eggs and oysters does not cure impotence.
impoverished adj. 1 destitute, poor, poverty-stricken, penurious, beggared, needy, necessitous, impecunious, in sore or bad straits, straitened, in distress, badly off, bankrupt, insolvent, ruined, Colloq (dead or flat) broke, stony-broke, bad off, pinched, up against it, on one's uppers, short, US strapped, wiped out, Slang Brit skint: A series of failed harvests left many farmers impoverished. 2 stripped, barren, desolate, wasted, empty, depleted, denuded, drained, exhausted: Two years of drought left the land impoverished.
impractical adj. 1 visionary, starry-eyed, unrealistic, romantic, quixotic, wild: Laura's solutions are very creative but quite impractical. 2 useless, ineffective, ineffectual, unworkable, unavailing, impracticable: The idea looked good on paper but proved impractical when we tried it.
impregnable adj. invulnerable, impenetrable, inviolable, unconquerable, invincible, unbeatable, indomitable, secure, safe, mighty, well-fortified: The walls of the castle, sixteen feet thick, were impregnable.
impress v. 1 affect, touch, move, reach, stir, strike, sway, influence, persuade, Colloq grab, get under one's skin: She was genuinely impressed by his sincerity. 2 print, imprint, stamp, mark, engrave, emboss: Before the bowl was placed in the kiln, the potter's seal was impressed in its underside. 3 Often, impress on or upon. stress, emphasize, urge, bring home (to): They tried to impress on him the gravity of the situation.
impressionable adj. suggestible, susceptible, persuadable or persuasible, impressible, receptive, responsive: They seek to enrol students who are at an impressionable age.
imprison v. incarcerate, confine, detain, remand, jail or Brit also gaol, lock up, intern, shut up, put behind bars, put in or throw into irons, put away, Colloq Brit send down, US send up (the river): He was imprisoned for a crime he didn't commit.
improbable adj. doubtful, dubious, unlikely, questionable, unrealistic, far-fetched, remote, implausible, unthinkable, hard to believe or imagine, inconceivable, unbelievable, fanciful, incredible, ridiculous, ludicrous, absurd, crazy, mad, insane, wild, weird, peculiar, strange; impossible; Colloq fishy: It is improbable that they will marry. He gave the most improbable excuses.
impropriety n. 1 improperness, erroneousness, incorrectness, falsity, falseness, inaccuracy, inaccurateness, inexactitude, inexactness, imprecision, impreciseness, irregularity, abnormality: I fail to see the impropriety in refusing to support capital punishment. 2 unfitness, unsuitableness, inappropriateness, inaptness, inapplicability, infelicity, infelicitousness, incongruity, incongruousness, unseemliness, incompatibility, inopportuneness: The judge criticized the impropriety of allowing the child to testify. 3 indecorousness, bad or poor taste, indecency, indelicacy, immodesty, unseemliness, suggestiveness, immorality, sinfulness, wickedness, lewdness, lasciviousness: In those days, the impropriety in wearing a brief bathing costume was thought shocking. 4 slip, blunder, mistake, error, gaffe, gaucherie, faux pas: She admitted to many improprieties during her term of office.
improvement n. 1 betterment, amelioration; reform, rehabilitation, upgrading, enhancement, repair: The committee is working for the improvement of the neighbourhood. 2 recovery, rise, increase, gain, advance, upswing, progress; recuperation, convalescence: There was an improvement in share prices after release of the trade figures. The patient shows considerable improvement. 3 advance, change for the better: This year's crop is an improvement over last year's.
improvise n. 1 ad lib, extemporize, Colloq play (it) by ear, fake it, wing it: I like a comedian who improvises as he goes along. 2 invent, concoct, devise, contrive, jury-rig; make do: We had to improvise a mast from parts of the boom. When you have nothing to work with, you have to improvise.
impudence n. impertinence, effrontery, insolence, disrespect, presumption, presumptuousness, audacity, shamelessness, pertness, sauciness, boldness, brazenness, incivility, rudeness, impoliteness, Colloq lip, gall, guff, sauce, mouth, Brit backchat, side, US back talk, Slang chutzpah: He had the impudence to suggest that I was too old for the job!
impulsive n. impetuous, emotional, unpredictable, unpremeditated, unplanned, spur-of-the-moment, extemporaneous, unconsidered, offhand, instinctive, involuntary, spontaneous, quick, sudden, precipitate, immediate, snap, rash, headlong, rash, reckless, devil-may-care, foolhardy, madcap, wild: You may say that it was impulsive of me to give her all that money, but I love her.
impurity n. 1 pollution, contamination, defilement, adulteration, dirtiness, uncleanness, foulness: The impurity of the water in our rivers is a cause for concern. 2 Often, impurities. dirt, contaminant, pollutant, pollution, smut, filth, foreign matter or body: This filter is guaranteed to remove impurities from the water. 3 unchastity, immorality, sinfulness, wickedness, evil, vileness, corruption, degeneration, depravity, looseness, wantonness, lust, lustfulness, promiscuity, promiscuousness, libidinousness, dissoluteness, licentiousness, obscenity, prurience, dirtiness, filthiness, lubricity, salaciousness, lasciviousness, lewdness, lecherousness: Children ought not be exposed to the impurity encountered on everyday television.
impute v. ascribe, assign, attribute, credit, charge, put or set down to; insinuate, imply, suggest, hint at: The critic imputed meanings to the book that the author had never intended.
inaccessible adj. 1 unavailable, unobtainable, unattainable, unreachable, unapproachable: The minister has made himself inaccessible for interviews. 2 impenetrable, impassable, out-of-the-way: The tomb lies in a part of the jungle inaccessible except by air.
inactive adj. 1 passive, placid, quiet, tranquil, quiescent, serene, peaceful, pacific, resting, unmoving, motionless, immobile, immobilized, still, inert, lifeless, inanimate, sluggish, listless, lethargic, lackadaisical, languid, indolent, lazy, torpid, somnolent, idle, slothful, supine: Although there was plenty to do round the house, he remained inactive all summer. 2 non-functioning, inoperative, dormant; unoccupied, idle, unemployed, jobless, out of work, out of a job: The volcano was inactive for a thousand years. These miners have been inactive for six months.
inadequate adj. 1 insufficient, deficient, not enough, too little, scarce, meagre, scanty, skimpy, sparse, (in) short (supply); unsatisfactory, imperfect, incomplete, defective, unsuitable, disappointing, flawed, faulty: Funds are inadequate to meet her expenses. The terms of the agreement are inadequate. 2 inadequate to. unsuited to or for, unfit for, unqualified for, not up to, unequal to, unworthy of, inapt for, inept for, incapable of: He proved inadequate to the demands of the job.
inadvertent adj. 1 unintentional, unintended, unpremeditated, accidental, unthinking, unwitting, chance; unconscious, unplanned, unstudied, undesigned, uncalculated: She was an inadvertent witness to the murder. I assure you that the error was entirely inadvertent. 2 careless, inattentive, negligent, heedless, unobservant: Inadvertent commentators failed to see the significance of her words.
inane adj. silly, asinine, vapid, vacant, vacuous, absurd, fatuous, foolish, senseless, nonsensical, unreasonable, preposterous, ludicrous, ridiculous, laughable, risible, mad, lunatic, crazy, stupid, dumb, idiotic, moronic, imbecilic, Colloq nutty, nuts, daft, daffy, screwy, batty, dippy, wacky, cuckoo, loony, goofy, Brit bonkers, dotty: Students seem especially prone to inane behaviour.
inapplicable adj. inappropriate, unsuitable, unsuited, inapt, irrelevant, unrelated, unconnected, inapposite, beside the point or question, extraneous, off the mark, Colloq US off base: That law is inapplicable in your case.
inarticulate adj. 1 disjointed, unconnected, incoherent, incomprehensible, jumbled, unintelligible, unclear, illogical, discursive, rambling, scrambled, wild, irrational, muddled, mixed-up, confused, digressive: She sat through an inarticulate lecture on Joyce's use of the subjunctive. 2 mumbled, garbled, blurred, muffled, muttered, faltering, halting, indistinct, unclear, unintelligible: They communicate with each other in inarticulate grunts. 3 speechless, tongue-tied, (struck) dumb, mute, voiceless: Ed is inarticulate when it comes to describing Vera.
inaudible adj. unheard, imperceptible, indistinct, low, faint, muted, quiet, soft, muffled, stifled: The film was good, although some of the dialogue was inaudible.
inauspicious adj. unpromising, unlucky, unfortunate, unfavourable, unpropitious, untoward, ill-starred, ominous, ill-omened, ill-fated, portentous, menacing, doomed, sinister, dark, gloomy, cloudy, clouded, black: The middle of a recession is an inauspicious time to set up a business.
incandescent adj. glowing, red-hot, white-hot, alight, aflame, flaming, burning, fiery, candent, flaring: Light-bulbs contain an incandescent filament.
incapacitate v. disable, cripple, paralyse, lame, wound, maim, impair, weaken, enfeeble, enervate, exhaust, devitalize; immobilize, inactivate, deactivate, put out of action, indispose: Severely incapacitated in the crash, John cannot walk without the aid of crutches. The power plant was incapacitated by one well-placed grenade.
incidence n. frequency, rate, degree, extent, occurrence, prevalence; quantity, amount, number: The incidence of heart disease is high in Britain.
incidental adj. 1 casual, chance, fortuitous, aleatory, random, haphazard, serendipitous, unpredictable, accidental, adventitious, unplanned, unlooked-for, Colloq fluky: Any good that came from the war was incidental. 2 subordinate, secondary, ancillary, minor, lesser, non-essential, unimportant, trivial, negligible, inconsequential, insignificant, petty, trifling, paltry: The incidental events were not covered by the press.
incision n. cut, gash, slit, slash: The surgeon made an incision in the abdominal wall.
incite v. stimulate, inspire, prompt, move, stir, stir or whip or work up, bestir, excite, fire, exhort, agitate, foment, inflame, provoke, rally, goad, spur, prick, prod, drive, push, egg on, encourage, urge, influence, wake, waken, awaken, rouse, arouse: Who was it that incited the crowd to violence?
incivility n. rudeness, boorishness, coarseness, discourtesy, uncourtliness, unmannerliness, indecorum, indecorousness, discourteousness, impoliteness, tactlessness, ungentlemanliness, bad breeding, ill breeding, bad manners, misbehaviour: The incivility with which the ambassador was treated is unforgivable.
inclination n. 1 bow, bowing, bend, bending, nod, nodding, tilt, tilting: His tacit sign of recognition was an inclination of his head. 2 slope, slant, angle, bend, incline, tilt: The inclination of the track is far too steep for such a vehicle. 3 disposition, predisposition, tendency, bent, bias, leaning, preference, turn, cast, proclivity, propensity, attitude, proneness, susceptibility, predilection, partiality, affection, taste, liking, desire, velleity: His inclination in favour of the offer is largely instinctive. 4 desire, longing, craving, appetite, taste, stomach, sympathy, predilection, penchant, fancy, eagerness, enthusiasm, zeal, fervour, ardour: I have no inclination to watch open-heart surgery.
inclined adj. 1 tending, disposed, predisposed, prone, willing, keen, eager, Colloq of a mind: Though she is inclined to believe she has doubts. 2 likely, apt, liable, minded, prone: He is equally inclined to kiss you as kill you. 3 sloping, slanting, leaning, bending, tilting, gravitating, bearing, verging: This wall is slightly inclined towards the river.
inclusion n. incorporation, involvement, counting, numbering, grouping, classification: The inclusion of her name among the culprits was an error.
incognito adj. 1 unknown, disguised, concealed, unidentified, in disguise, unrecognizable, unrecognized: I did not tell them who I was; I wanted to remain incognito. --adv. 2 unrecognizably, in disguise, secretly, on the sly, under cover, clandestinely: Why travel incognito if no one knows or cares who you really are?
incombustible adj. non-flammable, non-inflammable, fireproof, non-combustible; flame-proof: She has to wear incombustible clothing at her job.
incoming adj. 1 arriving, entering: Incoming passengers must pass through customs. 2 new, entering: They are trying to predict the likely policies of the incoming government.
incompatible adj. mismatched, unsuited, discordant, clashing, jarring, inconsistent, contradictory, conflicting, uncongenial, irreconcilable, incongruous; antithetic, opposed, opposite, contrary, antipathetic, antagonistic, hostile: The colours in the carpet are incompatible with those in the curtains. My sister and I are totally incompatible and can never meet without arguing.
incompetent adj. unqualified, unfit, unable, incapable, unskilled, unskilful, inept, maladroit, inexpert, awkward, floundering, clumsy, bungling, gauche, useless, inadequate, insufficient, ineffective, ineffectual, inefficient: Incompetent managers need competent secretaries in order to survive.
incomprehensible adj. unintelligible, unfathomable, impenetrable, deep, abstruse, arcane, recondite, indecipherable, undecipherable, inscrutable, cryptic, obscure, opaque, dark, occult, perplexing, mysterious, mystifying, enigmatic, puzzling, over (someone's) head, baffling, unimaginable, inconceivable: They spoke in Swahili, an incomprehensible language to me.
inconclusive adj. indecisive, unresolved, indefinite, unsettled, open, indeterminate, in limbo, Colloq up in the air: The test results are inconclusive, so we must continue our investigations.
inconsequential adj. unimportant, insignificant, trivial, trifling, nugatory, inconsiderable, inappreciable, negligible, minor, paltry, petty, immaterial, slight, lightweight, worthless, Colloq piddling: Why dwell on inconsequential details?
inconsistent adj. 1 See incongruous. 2 irregular, capricious, fickle, erratic, inconstant, uneven, unpredictable, unreliable, undependable, unstable, unsteady, changeable, variable: Their behaviour is so inconsistent that I can't tell what they'll do next.
inconspicuous adj. unnoticeable, unnoticed, unobtrusive, unostentatious, insignificant, indefinite, indistinguishable, undistinguished; modest, unassuming, discreet: Wearing a grey coat and hat, he was quite inconspicuous in the crowd. He played an inconspicuous role in the entire affair.
inconstant adj. changeable, mutable, fickle, capricious, mercurial, volatile, vacillating, unsteady, unsteadfast, irresolute, unreliable, undependable, fluctuating, wavering, erratic, inconsistent, flighty, unstable, unsettled, fitful, vague, indefinite, variable, moody: His supporters proved inconstant, and he fell from power. The inconstant wind blew their craft hither and thither.
incontrovertible adj. irrefutable, indisputable, indubitable, undeniable, incontestable, unquestionable, sure, certain, definite, definitive, established, absolute, positive: The fingerprint was incontrovertible evidence that he had been there. inconvenience n. 1 disadvantage, discomfort, pain, trouble, bother, annoyance, nuisance, awkwardness, disturbance, disruption, burden, drawback, hindrance, impediment, difficulty, upset: How are you coping with the inconvenience of walking with crutches? 2 cumbersomeness, unwieldiness, burdensomeness, onerousness, troublesomeness, disadvantageousness, awkwardness, inappropriateness, untimeliness: The delay has led to considerable public inconvenience. --v. 3 discommode, trouble, incommode, disturb, disrupt, upset, put out, bother, annoy, irritate, irk: Would it inconvenience you to meet me at the station?
incorporate v. embody, include, combine, comprise, embrace, integrate, consolidate, unite, amalgamate, assimilate, coalesce, unify; merge, mix, blend: The university incorporates several independent colleges. Gently fold in the egg whites, incorporating them into the mixture.
incorrigible adj. bad, naughty, villainous, wicked, sinful, hopeless; intractable, unchangeable, unalterable, habitual, inveterate, incurable, stubborn, hardened, obdurate, inflexible, uncontrollable: When a teenager, Giles was absolutely incorrigible. Among other things, he was an incorrigible liar.
increase v. 1 grow, swell, enlarge, dilate, wax, expand, extend, distend, inflate, augment, snowball, enhance, heighten, raise, develop, multiply, burgeon or bourgeon, flourish, proliferate, spread, broaden, widen, lengthen: Since you left, my work has increased threefold. 2 prolong, advance, further, improve, better, strengthen: The more lottery tickets you buy, the more you increase your chances of winning. --n. 3 growth, enlargement, expansion, extension, augmentation, enhancement, development, multiplication, proliferation, spread: The increase in scientific knowledge has been phenomenal. 4 addition, increment, escalation, inflation, gain, rise, boost: Increases in costs are reflected in increases in prices. 5 on the increase. waxing, developing, growing, expanding, increasing, escalating, on the rise, proliferating, spreading: Trade with the Far East will be on the increase next year.
incredulous adj. disbelieving, unbelieving, dubious, doubtful, sceptical, mistrustful, distrustful, suspicious: We were incredulous when we learnt who had won the award.
incriminate v. accuse, charge, blame, implicate, inculpate, indict, impeach, involve, entangle, Colloq point the finger at, Chiefly US put the finger on, Slang US finger: The suspect confessed and incriminated two others.
incumbent adj. 1 obligatory, necessary, required, mandatory, compulsory, binding, demanding, commanding, prescribed: As their father, you ought to feel it incumbent on you to talk to the children's teachers. 2 office-holding: The incumbent chairman is not responsible for his predecessor's mistakes. --n. 3 office-holder, official, occupant: As the incumbent, you have a better chance of being re-elected.
incurable adj. 1 irremediable, terminal, inoperable, fatal, hopeless: The doctor told me yesterday that the condition is incurable. 2 hopeless, inveterate, habitual, incorrigible, dyed in the wool, unflagging, relentless, irredeemable; irreparable, unrectifiable: You are an incurable optimist if you think you will complete this book by the deadline.
indecent adj. 1 indecorous, indelicate, immodest, improper, unbecoming, unsuitable, unfit, inappropriate; in bad taste: When he proposed marriage she accepted with indecent haste. 2 unseemly, shameless, shameful, offensive, outrageous, repellent, repulsive, distasteful, ill-mannered, rude, suggestive, coarse, risqu, vulgar, blue, obscene, gross, rank, prurient, dirty, foul, filthy, pornographic, ithyphallic, scatological, salacious, lascivious, licentious, lewd, lubricious or lubricous, smutty, vile, degenerate, debauched: There are always a lot of complaints about indecent language on television.
indecisive adj. 1 hesitating, hesitant, wavering, doubtful, vacillating, undecided, irresolute, uncertain, of two minds, ambivalent, shilly-shallying, wishy-washy, namby-pamby, fluctuating, tergiversating: Why are you so assertive at the office yet so indecisive at home? 2 indefinite, indeterminate, undecided, inconclusive, open, unsettled, moot, doubtful: The battle was indecisive, with both sides incurring heavy losses.
indefinite adj. 1 uncertain, undetermined, undefined, imprecise, inexact, inexplicit, unspecified, unsettled, unfixed, unspecific, non-specific, vague, general, indeterminate, undecided, sub judice: The time of the meeting was indefinite. 2 vague, unclear, obscure, confused, confusing, puzzling, baffling, cryptic, bewildering, mystifying, equivocal, ambiguous, unspecific, non-specific, inexplicit, inexact, imprecise: Your directions for getting here were too indefinite. 3 ill-defined, undefined, blurred, blurry, hazy, indistinct, obscure, dim, fuzzy, unrecognizable, indistinguishable: Indefinite shapes loomed in the fog. 4 unlimited, unknown, uncounted, uncountable, undefinable, indeterminate, indeterminable, unbounded, boundless, immeasurable, incalculable, limitless, endless, infinite: He pondered the indefinite capacities of the mind. 5 hesitant, vague, shilly-shallying, vacillating, indecisive, undecided, inconstant, wavering, unsure, uncertain, Colloq wishy-washy: She is still indefinite about going to the party.
indelicacy n. coarseness, crudeness, roughness, vulgarity, boorishness, churlishness, offensiveness, rudeness, immodesty, indecency, shamelessness; incivility, indecorum, inelegance, uncourtliness, unmannerliness, impoliteness, unrefinement, unseemliness, tastelessness, bad or poor taste, grossness: She refuses to comment on the indelicacy of his proposal.
indentation n. notch, dent, nick, cut, score, mark, depression, impression, hollow, dimple, pit; Typography indention: The chair legs had left small indentations in the parquet floor. The indentation of each paragraph should be five spaces.
independent adj. 1 free, self-governing, autonomous, sovereign: In 1829 Greece was acknowledged as an independent state. 2 unrestrained, unrestricted, unfettered, untrammelled, unregulated, uncontrolled, separate(d), unconnected, disconnected, unrelated, distinct: Air is made up of independent particles. 3 self-reliant, self-sufficient, self-assured, (self-)confident, bold, individualistic, competent: For a six-year-old, he is very independent. 4 voluntary, non-partisan, spontaneous, unsolicited, unbidden, unprejudiced, unbiased, non-aligned, unaligned, disinterested, neutral: Four independent witnesses testified to seeing him at the scene of the crime. 5 unlimited, unrestricted, affluent, self-sufficient; unearned: She is a woman of independent means. 6 unallied, unaffiliated, uncommitted, individualistic, undecided: Independent candidates outnumber those of the two main parties in this election. 7 outside, external, unaffiliated, non-affiliated, unconnected, disinterested: An independent auditor was engaged to go over the company's books. 8 independent of. irrespective of, disregarding, notwithstanding, ignoring, excluding; exclusive of, except for, barring, apart from, besides, beyond, US aside from: He insists on doing things his way, independent of others' feelings. Independent of you and me, no one cares what he does. --n. 9 individual, nonconformist, maverick, Colloq loner: He is an independent, not affiliated to any political party.
index n. 1 guide, directory, list, listing, table of contents, catalogue, key, thesaurus: To find synonyms for a word in this book, look first in the index. 2 mark, sign, clue, token, hint, pointer, indicator, indication, guide: An index to his feelings can be seen in the way he treats people. 3 index finger, forefinger, first finger; pointer, marker, needle, Chiefly Brit typography hand, Chiefly US typography fist: Use an index to emphasize important paragraphs. 4 ratio, measure, formula, factor: The cephalic index is the ratio of the width of a skull to its length multiplied by 100.
indication n. 1 sign, signal, token, suggestion, hint, intimation, inkling, clue, implication, symptom: A bullet-riddled corpse, said the detective, is usually a good indication of foul play. 2 reading, measure, degree: The indication on the pressure gauge is reaching the danger point. 3 omen, portent, forewarning, warning, augury, foreshadowing, foretoken: Those black clouds are an indication that a storm is brewing. Can't you give us any indication of what will become of us? 4 indications. evidence, data, clues, signs: Indications are that she left on the last train.
indicator n. pointer, needle; gauge, meter, display: The indicator reads exactly 67C.
indifference n. 1 unconcern, apathy, listlessness, disinterest, coolness, nonchalance, insouciance, aloofness, detachment, disregard, inattention, pococuranteism or pococurantism, coldness, phlegm, stolidity, callousness, insensibility, impassiveness or impassivity: I cannot believe the indifference she showed on learning about the tragedy. 2 unimportance, insignificance, irrelevance, unconcern, inconsequence, triviality: Whether I go or stay is a matter of indifference to me. 3 dispassion, disinterestedness, impartiality, neutrality, objectivity, fairness, equitableness, even-handedness: The judges demonstrated their indifference by awarding first prize to a novice.
indigenous adj. 1 native, local, autochthonous, endemic, natural, aboriginal, original: The indigenous inhabitants were displaced by marauding tribes. 2 innate, inborn, inbred, inherent: It is often difficult to distinguish between man's indigenous and his acquired characteristics.
indigestion n. dyspepsia, upset stomach, stomach distress; stomach-ache, gastralgia: A bit of bicarbonate of soda cured my indigestion at once.
indignation n. anger, fury, rage, wrath, exasperation, irritation, annoyance, vexation, resentment, Literary ire, choler: She was filled with righteous indignation at the treatment she received.
indirect adj. 1 roundabout, circuitous, circumambient, devious, tortuous, zigzag, winding, rambling, roving, wandering, erratic, meandering, ambagious, crooked, oblique, twisted, twisting; circumlocutory, periphrastic: In an indirect way she told me that I was fired. 2 secondary, incidental, ancillary, collateral, accidental, side, subordinate, subsidiary, accessory, additional, accidental, adscititious, adventitious: An indirect effect of winning the prize was an offer of more work.
indiscretion n. 1 imprudence, tactlessness, improvidence, injudiciousness, rashness, recklessness, audacity, boldness, temerity, impulsiveness, hastiness, haste, impetuousness, impetuosity, thoughtlessness, insensitivity, heedlessness, carelessness, navety, foolishness, foolhardiness, folly: He was guilty of indiscretion in talking to the press about the confidential report. 2 blunder, error, mistake, slip, lapse, misstep, gaffe, faux pas, peccadillo, Colloq boner, Brit bloomer: He spent much of his adult life paying for the indiscretions of his youth.
indispensable adj. 1 crucial, vital, essential, urgent, imperative, necessary, needed, needful, required, requisite, demanded, in demand, called-for, of the essence, important, compelling: A good television manner is indispensable in a national leader these days. 2 key, unavoidable, inescapable, ineluctable, compulsory, mandatory, sine qua non, obligatory: Are a black bowler and tightly furled umbrella still indispensable to doing business in the City?
indisputable adj. unquestionable, incontrovertible, incontestable, irrefutable, undeniable, indubitable, beyond doubt, sure, certain, positive, definite, definitive, absolute, fixed: It was indisputable that the outlook was grim. The show was an indisputable success.
indistinguishable adj. 1 Often, indistinguishable from. undifferentiated (from), identical (to), alike, like two peas in a pod, twin, inseparable: He is indistinguishable from his brother. Her fingerprints and those found on the dagger are indistinguishable. 2 indiscernible, imperceptible, indefinite, unclear, indistinct: His good qualities were indistinguishable to me.
individualist n. independent, freethinker, nonconformist, maverick, loner, lone wolf: Nick is an individualist and seldom agrees with the majority.
indoctrinate v. train, teach, instruct, school, discipline, drill, brainwash, propagandize; inculcate, imbue, instil, implant: The children were indoctrinated to believe that they were members of the master race. He indoctrinated them with the idea that they were capable of anything.
indolent adj. lazy, slothful, sluggish, idle, lethargic, shiftless, languorous, languid, torpid, inert, inactive, stagnant, fainant, listless: 'Peel me a grape', she said in her most indolent manner.
induce v. 1 lead, persuade, influence, prevail on or upon, sway, move, convince, get, talk into, prompt, incite, instigate, actuate, motivate, impel, encourage, inspire, stimulate, nudge, push, press, urge, prod, goad, spur, egg on, coax, cajole, lure, entice, inveigle, seduce: He was induced to sell the secret plans to the enemy for a large sum. 2 cause, bring about or on, produce, give rise to, engender, create, generate, lead to; effect, occasion, set in motion: Some drugs induce a state of euphoria.
induct v. 1 install or instal, inaugurate, invest, instate, establish, swear in: Crocker was inducted as president of the lodge last night. 2 call up, enlist, conscript, enrol, register, US draft: He was inducted into the army at 18.
indulgence n. 1 tolerance, sufferance, understanding, patience, good will, allowance, forbearance; acceptance, overlooking: Genevieve's behaviour is testing the limits of Tom's indulgence. 2 self-indulgence, luxury, extravagance, profligacy, self-gratification, self-satisfaction: A notorious pleasure-seeker, his capacity for indulgence is legendary. 3 treat, luxury, extravagance: My sole indulgence is vintage port.
industrious adj. sedulous, assiduous, hard-working, diligent, intense, conscientious, energetic, dynamic, aggressive, vigorous, untiring, tireless, indefatigable, unflagging, persistent, pertinacious, dogged, tenacious, US hustling: The business was built up only because she was so industrious.
ineffable adj. 1 unutterable, unspeakable, unmentionable, taboo: In certain religions, the name of the deity is ineffable. 2 inexpressible, indescribable, indefinable or undefinable, indescribable or undescribable, beyond description, beyond words: The Royal Hotel had an ineffable air of serene affluence.
ineffectual adj. 1 unsuccessful, unavailing, futile, bootless, sterile, barren, fruitless, unproductive, ineffective, inefficacious, inoperative: Our efforts to deal with pollution have been largely ineffectual. 2 weak, feeble, effete, impotent, tame, lame, powerless, inefficient, incompetent, inadequate: We tried to read the inscription by the ineffectual light of a match.
ineligible adj. unqualified, unacceptable, unfit, unsuited, unsuitable, inappropriate, improper: He is ineligible for benefit as he left his job voluntarily.
ineptitude n. 1 ineptness, clumsiness, awkwardness, maladroitness, ungainliness, gaucherie, incompetence, inefficiency, unfitness, unsuitableness: He displays a remarkable ineptitude for the pronunciation of French. 2 inappropriateness, inaptness, absurdity, unsuitability, unseemliness: The ineptitude of her comments embarrasses everyone.
inert adj. 1 inactive, unreactive, unresponsive, neutral: Argon, xenon, and neon are inert gases. 2 motionless, immobile, inanimate, lifeless, still, quiet, quiescent, stationary, static: He was mute and inert: it was like talking to a zombie. 3 sluggish, slow, torpid, dull, inactive, idle, indolent, lazy, slothful, leaden, slack, passive, supine, dormant, otiose, listless, languid or languorous: I contemplated the inert bodies sunbathing around the swimming-pool.
inestimable adj. 1 incalculable, immeasurable, measureless, untold, incomputable; priceless, invaluable, precious: You have been of inestimable help in completing the project on time. 2 countless, innumerable, vast, immense, prodigious, boundless, unfathomable, infinite, incalculable, immeasurable, measureless, untold, incomputable: An inestimable number of organisms have inhabited the earth.
inexact adj. imprecise, inaccurate, erroneous, incorrect, wrong, false, faulty, indefinite, fallacious, fuzzy, muddled: This gauge is giving an inexact reading.
inexhaustible adj. 1 limitless, boundless, unlimited, unbounded, unrestricted, endless, measureless, indeterminate, infinite, incalculable: The supply of tasteless television programmes seems virtually inexhaustible. 2 untiring, tireless, indefatigable, unflagging, unfailing, unfaltering, unwearying, unwearied: Bartell is an inexhaustible practical joker. inexpensive adj. cheap, economical, low-priced, low-cost, reasonable, budget-priced: What might seem inexpensive to you is very costly for me.
inexperienced adj. immature, innocent, nave, green, callow, unsophisticated, unworldly, unfledged, raw, uninitiated, untrained, unschooled, uninformed, unseasoned, Colloq (still) wet behind the ears, born yesterday: Isn't she too inexperienced to take on such a great responsibility?
inexpressible adj. unutterable, ineffable, unspeakable, indescribable, indefinable: I felt inexpressible joy at seeing my children again.
inextricably adv. inescapably, ineluctably, unavoidably, irretrievably, completely, inseparably, indissolubly, totally, complicatedly, intricately: I found myself inextricably caught up in her emotional problems.
infamous adj. 1 notorious, disreputable, ill-famed, stigmatized, scandalous, discreditable, dishonourable, ignominious: So this is the infamous house where the murders took place! 2 bad, awful, wicked, evil, iniquitous, villainous, heinous, vile, abominable, outrageous, execrable, abhorrent, opprobrious, despicable, loathsome, detestable, odious, foul, scurvy, rotten, atrocious, flagitious, revolting, monstrous, egregious, base, low, shameful, disgraceful: A number of infamous criminals are portrayed in the Chamber of Horrors.
infancy n. 1 babyhood, early childhood: His limp was the result of polio, which he had contracted in infancy. 2 beginning(s), inception, early or initial, stage(s), commencement, start, emergence, dawn, rise: When psychiatry was in its infancy it was marked by a notable lack of success.
infatuated adj. fascinated, beguiled, enchanted, bewitched, spellbound, charmed, ensorcelled, enraptured, possessed, hypnotized, mesmerized, captivated, besotted, taken with, obsessed, smitten, enamoured, fond: Francis is completely infatuated with the girl who moved in next door.
infer v. deduce, derive, draw, conclude, understand, gather, surmise, guess, assume: From the evidence, I infer that you were not at home last night.
inferior adj. 1 lower, nether: We descended into the inferior regions of the cavern. The numeral in H2O is called an inferior character. 2 lesser, lower, subordinate, secondary, junior, minor, unimportant, insignificant, lowly, subservient, humble, servile: He occupies an inferior position in the company. 3 poor, bad, low-quality, mediocre, indifferent, imperfect, defective, second-rate, second-class, substandard, low-grade, shoddy, gimcrack, Colloq grotty, junky, crummy or crumby, lousy, Slang crappy, Brit naff: They tried to market an inferior product, but it was rejected by consumers. --n. 4 subordinate, underling, junior, menial, lackey, flunkey, dogsbody, cat's-paw, doormat, stooge, yes-man, lickspittle, bootlicker: She is tired of being treated as an inferior.
infernal adj. 1 hellish, underworld, nether, Hadean: Virgil was Dante's guide in the infernal regions. 2 devilish, diabolic(al), demonic(al), demoniac(al), fiendish, satanic, Mephistophelian; damnable, damned, execrable, malicious, malevolent, maleficent, wicked, evil, iniquitous, flagitious, villainous, heinous, dire, sinister, dreadful: She tells everyone that there is an infernal plot against her.
infest v. invade, plague, beset, overrun, overspread, flood, swarm over, inundate, pervade, permeate, penetrate, infiltrate: Mosquitoes infested this area before the swamp was drained.
infidelity n. 1 unfaithfulness, faithlessness, treachery, traitorousness, disloyalty, perfidy, falseness, apostasy, heresy: The infidelity of his supporters brought about his downfall. 2 adultery, cuckoldry; affair, liaison, amour, Colloq cheating: Infidelity is a common cause of marriage break-up. She forgave him his many infidelities.
infirm adj. 1 ill, indisposed, debilitated, frail, fragile, weak, feeble, weakened, ailing, decrepit, enfeebled, failing, wasted, on the decline, sick, sickly, unwell, lame, crippled: Campbell is infirm and unable to travel. 2 shaky, flimsy, wobbly, wobbling, doddering, unstable, faltering, vacillating, wavering, unsteady, unsteadfast, inconstant, changeable, irresolute: We must find stalwart recruits, recruits who are not infirm of purpose.
infirmity n. 1 weakness, feebleness, frailness, frailty, debility, decrepitude, sickliness: At 100, she finally succumbed to infirmity, and ceased going out altogether. 2 sickness, ailment, disease, malady, affliction, disorder, defect, complaint: What infirmity struck him down?
inflamed adj. irritated, sore, angry, chafing, chafed, red, swollen, heated, hot, fevered, feverish, infected, septic: The wound became inflamed and we had no medicine to reduce the infection.
inflammation n. irritation, redness, swelling, sore, infection: The inflammation subsided as the injection took effect.
inflate v. 1 blow up, balloon, expand, dilate, enlarge, swell, pump up, puff up or out, distend: We inflated two plastic bags to use as floats. 2 boost, increase: The price of the company's shares was inflated by rumours of a take-over bid. 3 exaggerate, amplify, magnify, blow up: He tends to inflate to huge proportions the small contribution he made to the project. inflated adj. 1 exaggerated, conceited, overblown, grandiose, puffed up, overstated, magnified, amplified, overdrawn, smug, egotistic, immodest, cocky, vain, self-important, Colloq Brit swelled-headed, US swell-headed: He has an inflated idea of the importance of his work. 2 grandiloquent, bombastic, orotund, high-flown, pompous, pretentious, extravagant, magniloquent: She always talks about her husband in such inflated terms.
inflict v. impose, apply, visit, administer, levy, force on or upon; trouble, afflict: The new government is seeking ways of inflicting more taxes on us. You ought not to inflict punishment on such small children.
influential adj. powerful, weighty, strong, forceful, effective, effectual, efficacious, instrumental, telling, significant, persuasive, dominant, leading, guiding, authoritative, predominant, important, substantial, prestigious, significant, controlling: He comes from an influential family. What factors were influential in reaching your decision?
informal adj. 1 unceremonious, casual, natural, unstilted, familiar, ordinary, everyday, unaffected, unassuming, unpretentious, simple, relaxed, free, free and easy, Brit common or garden, US garden-variety: We had an informal dinner in the kitchen. 2 unofficial, unconventional, unconstrained, casual, everyday, simple: On duty he wore informal clothes - blue jeans and a denim jacket. 3 vernacular, colloquial, simple, unaffected, ordinary, unpretentious, everyday: He uses informal language devoid of scientific jargon.
informative adj. communicative, instructive, educational, edifying, revealing, illuminating: We found his report about the missiles very informative.
informer n. traitor, betrayer, tattle-tale, taleteller, informant, Slang stool-pigeon, snitch, squealer, weasel, Brit grass, Chiefly US rat, US stoolie, canary, shoo-fly: According to the informer, the secret meeting is scheduled for tonight.
infringe v. 1 violate, contravene, break, disobey, transgress, overstep: Publication of this article has infringed her right to a fair trial. 2 infringe on or upon. intrude on, impinge on, trespass on, encroach on, invade: Never let pleasure infringe on the domain of duty.
infuriate v. enrage, anger, madden, incense, make (someone's) blood boil, provoke, inflame, work or stir or fire up, rile, arouse, vex, pique, gall, annoy, irritate, bother, chafe, agitate, irk, nettle, exasperate, raise (someone's) hackles, make (someone's) hackles rise, Brit have or get (someone's) blood up, Colloq miff, bug, peeve, get under (someone's) skin, get or Brit also put (someone's) back up, make (someone) see red, Chiefly US get (someone's) Irish or dander up, US burn up, Slang piss (someone) off, brown (someone) off, Brit cheese (someone) off: It really infuriated him to see injustice done to anyone.
ingenuity n. ingeniousness, genius, brilliance, cleverness, skill, shrewdness, cunning, craft, art, knack, flair, dexterity, dexterousness, adroitness, acuteness, sharpness, keenness, resourcefulness, adeptness, aptness, smartness, canniness, gift, talent, ability, capability, faculty, deftness, handiness, inventiveness, creativity, creativeness, imagination, imaginativeness, originality: She displayed extraordinary ingenuity in preparing the case against the plaintiff.
ingrained adj. engrained, deep-rooted, fixed, inveterate, deep-seated, fundamental, basic, essential, inherent, inborn, innate, inbred, inherited, hereditary, organic, intrinsic, native, natural: He has an ingrained fear of heights.
ingratitude n. unthankfulness, ungratefulness, thanklessness, unappreciativeness, non-recognition: Despite the favours they had received, they showed their ingratitude by refusing to contribute to the fund drive.
inhabit v. dwell in, reside in, live in, abide in, occupy, settle; locate in, populate, people; colonize: This bird inhabits northern Africa. North America was inhabited by emigrants from Europe.
inhale v. breathe in, inspire, draw or suck in: I stepped outside and inhaled the fresh spring air.
inherit v. come into, fall or be or become heir to, be bequeathed, succeed to, be left, receive, acquire, Colloq come by: She inherited the property when her father died.
inhibit v. discourage, repress, frustrate, hold back, bridle, curb, control, govern, hinder, restrain, impede, obstruct, interfere with, check, prevent, bar, stop: Her sad look inhibited my expression of delight at seeing her again.
inhibition n. self-consciousness, restraint, constraint, impediment, hindrance, bar, barrier, defence, defence mechanism, blockage, interference, check, curb, stricture: Geoff overcame his inhibitions and went over to talk with Anne. She had no inhibitions about singing in public.
inhuman adj. 1 inhumane, merciless, cruel, pitiless, ruthless, heartless, severe, unsympathetic, unfeeling, unkind, unkindly, uncompassionate, cold-blooded, vicious, stony-hearted, hard-hearted, callous, insensitive, barbaric, barbarous, savage: Many refugees have suffered torture and other inhuman treatment. 2 animal, bestial, brutal, brutish, fiendish, diabolical, demonic: The spectre, assuming an inhuman form, loomed over them.
initiate v. 1 begin, commence, enter upon or on, originate, introduce, set in motion, start, give rise to, get under way, launch, get or set going, trigger, set off, actuate, activate, instigate, institute, inaugurate: The programme was initiated last spring with much fanfare. 2 admit, accept, introduce: The new members were initiated last night, with due ceremony. 3 teach, instruct, train, tutor, drill, coach: His responsibility is to initiate recruits in the rudiments of jungle warfare. --n. 4 novice, beginner, new boy or girl, greenhorn, rookie, neophyte, tiro or tyro, newcomer, tenderfoot, fledgling, apprentice, (raw) recruit, abecedarian, noviciate or novitiate, catechumen, Brit fresher or US only freshman, Australian new chum: In the first weeks, initiates are drilled in the basics.
initiative n. 1 first move or step, lead, opening move: Hogan took the initiative by winning the first set. 2 enterprise, aggressiveness, drive, ambition, ambitiousness, resourcefulness, leadership, dynamism, energy, vigour, hustle, lan, Colloq get-up-and-go, pep, snap, zip, zing: At least she had the initiative to get the company back on a profitable basis.
injunction n. 1 prohibition, interdict, interdiction, restriction, restraint, US law restraining order: There is an injunction against picketing. 2 order, mandate, directive, command, direction, instruction, ruling, dictate, exhortation; warning, admonition: Mother's parting injunction was always to dress warmly.
injurious adj. 1 damaging, harmful, hurtful, bad, deleterious, unfavourable, detrimental, unhealthy, insalubrious, pernicious, destructive; adverse, ruinous: Smoking is said to be injurious to health. 2 abusive, insulting, scornful, slanderous, libellous, defamatory, scandalous, scurrilous, harsh, calumnious, disparaging, derogatory, deprecatory, contemptuous, denigrating, offensive: She speaks of her ex-husband in the most injurious terms.
injustice n. 1 unfairness, favouritism, discrimination, bias, inequality, partiality, partisanship, prejudice, bigotry, one-sidedness, unjustness, inequity: Class privilege has always condoned injustice. 2 wrong, injury: You do me an injustice if you think me capable of dishonesty.
inmate n. prisoner, convict, captive, jailbird or Brit also gaolbird, Slang Brit lag; patient, case; inhabitant, occupant, resident: The inmates were fed on bread and water in those days. Inmates at the sanatorium are well treated.
innovation n. 1 novelty; invention: The flush toilet was a 19th-century innovation. 2 modernization, alteration: Consumer product development is marked by a spirit of tireless innovation. innuendo n. insinuation, imputation, suggestion, hint, intimation, implication, allusion, overtone; reference, animadversion: I resent your innuendo that I know more about the affair than I am letting on.
inopportune adj. inappropriate, malapropos, ill-timed, untimely, inconvenient, unsuited, unsuitable, out of place, unpropitious, unfavourable, inauspicious, ill-chosen, unseasonable, unseemly, untoward, unfortunate: Your call came at a most inopportune moment, as we were just sitting down to dinner.
inquire v. 1 Usually, inquire into. search, investigate, probe, examine, research, look into, inspect, study, explore, survey, scrutinize: Scientists are inquiring into the causes of the greenhouse effect. 2 See enquire.
inquisitive adj. 1 inquiring, curious, probing, questioning, interested, investigative, searching, exploring, analytical: Children have a naturally inquisitive nature. 2 prying, intrusive, Colloq snooping, snoopy, nosy or nosey: Don't be so inquisitive about things that don't concern you!
insane adj. 1 mad, demented, psychotic, schizophrenic, schizoid, non compos mentis, manic, maniacal, lunatic, deranged, unbalanced, psychoneurotic, neurotic, eccentric, crazy, of unsound mind, crazed, unhinged, out of one's mind or head, mad as a hatter or a March hare, quirky, Colloq round the bend or twist, off one's rocker or chump, loopy, loony, certifiable, mental, screwy, dotty, cuckoo, not all there, not have all one's marbles, off-the-wall, out of it, Brit potty, Slang daft, nutty (as a fruit cake), nuts, spaced out, spacy, batty, have bats in one's belfry, not right upstairs, barmy (in the crumpet), crackers, have a screw loose, schizo, Brit bonkers, US bugs, bughouse, loco, crazy as a bedbug, (gone) off the deep end, kooky, kinky, out to lunch: Witney was certified insane and institutionalized. You're insane if you think I am going out on that ledge. 2 stupid, dumb, dull, silly, asinine, ridiculous, idiotic, irrational, absurd, fatuous, ludicrous, foolish, nonsensical, irresponsible, reckless, wild, imbecilic, moronic, feeble-minded, hare-brained, addle-pated, addle-brained, scatterbrained, thimble-witted, attocerebral, Brit gormless, Colloq nutty, screwy, crazy: People in love sometimes do insane things.
insecure adj. 1 uncertain, afraid, unsure, unconfident, nervous, worried, anxious, disconcerted, apprehensive, uncomfortable, shaky, jumpy, unnerved, fearful: Harry is beginning to feel insecure about his job. 2 unsafe, dangerous, unprotected, vulnerable, unguarded, defenceless, undefended, exposed, open: The machine-gun position is insecure and will soon be taken. 3 unstable, shaky, wobbly, precarious, infirm, weak, flimsy, frail, rickety, unsubstantial, rocky, unsound, unsteady, unreliable, uncertain: The structure collapsed because the footings were insecure.
insert v. 1 introduce, place or put or stick in, intercalate; interpolate, interject, interpose: Please do not insert comments of your own. --n. 2 insertion, addition, addendum, supplement, advertisement, broadside, brochure, tip-in, handbill, circular, Colloq Brit advert, US ad, flier or flyer; outsert, wraparound or wrapround: The postage will be higher with this eight-page insert.
insight n. perception, percipience, sensitivity, perspicacity, perceptiveness, perspicaciousness, discernment, acuteness, acuity, acumen, sharpness, understanding, judgement, comprehension, vision: Chambers has brought his considerable insight to bear on this complex problem.
insincere adj. hypocritical, dishonest, dissembling, deceptive, disingenuous, deceitful, untruthful, false, artificial, ungenuine, treacherous, perfidious, faithless, double-dealing, duplicitous, two-faced, Janus-faced, lying, mendacious, sly, Machiavellian, cunning, crafty, slick, foxy, vulpine, wily, artful, evasive, shifty, time-serving, unctuous, slimy, slippery, tricky, underhanded, crooked, Colloq phoney or US also phony: From the first act I thought Iago insincere.
insist v. 1 demand, require, call for, command, importune, urge, exhort, argue, remonstrate, expostulate: The chairman insisted that proper parliamentary procedure be followed. 2 assert, state, declare, emphasize, stress, maintain, persist, hold, dwell on, vow, avow, aver, asseverate: He insisted that he wanted to see the last act but she insisted on leaving.
insolent adj. impertinent, impudent, pert, saucy, bold, presumptuous, brazen, brash, disrespectful, insulting, contemptuous, offensive, rude, crude, uncivil, insubordinate, Colloq fresh, brassy, cheeky, Slang Brit smart-arsed or US smart-ass(ed), US wise: That insolent boor had the gall to call her 'Queenie'!
inspect v. examine, scrutinize, study, scan, survey, vet, check (up (on) or out), investigate, pore over; peruse: The customs man inspected every last inch of our luggage.
inspire v. 1 animate, activate, actuate, stimulate, invigorate, stir, move, waken, awaken, arouse, rouse, instigate, prompt, rally, energize, enliven, vitalize, vivify, galvanize, inspirit, excite, spark (off), quicken, kindle, fire, provoke: It was the inflammatory speeches that inspired the crowd to riot. His enthusiasm inspired her to take up writing as a profession. 2 encourage, strengthen, support, reinforce, buoy (up), uplift, boost, affirm, confirm, fortify, buttress: Your example has inspired many young people.
installation n. 1 investiture, instatement, initiation, establishment, inauguration, induction, institution, placement, introduction, solemnization, swearing-in, consecration, Ecclesiastical ordination; crowning, coronation: Will you attend the installation of the new vice-chancellor? 2 fitting, placement, connection, positioning: The plumber will supervise the installation of the new heating system. 3 base, post, station, depot, camp, establishment: Military installations all over the country are being picketed.
instant n. 1 moment, point, second, time: I was thinking of you at the very instant the phone rang. 2 moment, second, minute, flash, twinkling (of an eye), trice, Colloq jiffy: I'll be with you in an instant, sir. --adj. 3 instantaneous, immediate, on the spot, overnight: His novel was an instant best seller. 4 urgent, crying, pressing, earnest, imperative, critical, exigent; split-second, direct: We have an instant need for a computer specialist. 5 ready-made, ready-mixed, prepared, ready-to-serve, precooked: This is an instant soup - just add hot water to the powder.
instead adv. 1 as an alternative or a substitute: She wanted me to go but I stayed instead. 2 instead of. alternatively, preferably, in preference to, in place of, in lieu of, rather than, as a substitute for; as contrasted with, as opposed to: Instead of going to the cinema we went to the theatre.
instinct n. intuition, feel, feeling, empathy, sensitivity, tendency, propensity, leaning, bent, skill, talent, faculty, sixth sense, knack, predisposition, capacity, aptitude; subconscious: She has an uncanny instinct for finding the most interesting person in a crowd.
institute n. 1 society, organization, association, league, alliance, guild: They tried to establish an institute for research on badgers. 2 See institution, 2. --v. 3 establish, found, launch, organize: The principles of sportsmanship were instituted on the playing fields of England. 4 inaugurate, introduce, initiate, set up, start, begin, originate, commence, pioneer: If you do not pay, we shall be obliged to institute proceedings against you.
instruct v. 1 teach, train, tutor, drill, educate, coach, inform, guide, edify, prepare, indoctrinate, inculcate: My parents employed a tutor to instruct me in Latin. 2 direct, order, bid, require, tell, enjoin, command, importune, charge: We were instructed to tell no one where we were going.
instructive adj. informative, informational, informatory, educational, instructional, helpful, revealing, edifying, enlightening, illuminating: Studying the mistakes of others can be highly instructive.
instrument n. 1 implement, tool, device, apparatus, utensil, appliance, contrivance, mechanism, gadget, Colloq contraption, thingumabob, thingumajig, thingummy, thingy, whatsit, what's-its-name, whatnot, what-d'you-call-it, Brit gubbins, US gismo or gizmo: Which instrument should I use to loosen this bolt? The doctor extracted the splinter with some sort of instrument. 2 agency, means, way, factor, mechanism, instrumentality, wherewithal, (prime) mover, catalyst, agent: Summers refused to be the instrument of bringing free people into slavery. 3 contract, (legal) document, (written) agreement, pact, compact, paper: After the signing, copies of the instruments were exchanged.
insubordinate adj. disobedient, rebellious, defiant, refractory, mutinous, insurgent, insurrectional, insurrectionist, revolutionary, seditious, incompliant or uncompliant, uncooperative, recalcitrant, contumacious, fractious, unruly, perverse, contrary, obstreperous, Colloq Brit stroppy: The insubordinate officers have been court-martialled.
insufferable adj. unbearable, insupportable or unsupportable, intolerable, unendurable, impossible: The babysitter said she refused ever again to look after such an insufferable brat.
insulate v. 1 detach, separate, isolate, segregate, shelter, preserve, set or keep apart, sequester, sequestrate, quarantine: The rock star's aides did their best to insulate her from her screaming fans. 2 lag, protect, shield, cushion, wrap, cover: Insulate the pipes to prevent heat loss. Insulate the wire with this tape. Nitroglycerine must be insulated from shock.
insurance n. assurance, surety, indemnity, indemnification, guarantee or guaranty, warranty, bond, security, protection, cover: The cost of insurance is higher owing to the increase in crime.
intangible adj. impalpable, unperceivable, imperceptible, incorporeal, unsubstantial, insubstantial, imponderable, immaterial, ethereal, vaporous, airy, evanescent, vague, obscure, dim, imprecise, indefinite, shadowy, fleeting, elusive: The architect must deal with intangible ideas of design, how people work and live, etc.
integrate v. combine, unite, blend, bring or put together, assemble, merge, amalgamate, join, knit, mesh, consolidate, coalesce, fuse; US desegregate: We must integrate all the parts into a coherent whole. Several cultures have been well integrated into our community.
intellect n. 1 rationality, reason, reasonableness, (common) sense, understanding, judgement, cleverness, intelligence, mind, Colloq brains: You have the intellect, my boy, but it wants developing. 2 See intellectual, 3.
intelligence n. 1 intellect, understanding, aptitude, capacity, brainpower, cleverness, astuteness, quickness, alertness, keenness, brightness, shrewdness, wit, mother wit, (common) sense, insight, perspicacity, perception, discernment, discretion, percipience, perspicaciousness, wisdom, sagacity, Colloq brains, savvy, grey matter, Slang Brit nous: He may not know anything about computer programming but he has the intelligence to learn how to do it. 2 information, knowledge, word, data, facts, advice, news, tidings, findings, Colloq dope, low-down, info, Brit gen, US inside, poop: Our agents are trying to gather intelligence on the Bulgarian situation.
intelligentsia n.pl. intellectuals, literati, savants, illuminati, masterminds, highbrows, Colloq brains, eggheads, brains trust: The government stifled free speech and persecuted the intelligentsia.
intend v. mean, have in mind or in view, propose, contemplate, design, plan, aim, purpose, resolve, determine: I intend to give him a piece of my mind. She is intending to go, but I don't know if she will be able to.
intensify v. concentrate, focus, sharpen, whet, strengthen, reinforce, heighten, escalate, deepen, quicken, emphasize, magnify, increase, augment, double, redouble, heat up, Colloq step up, Brit hot up: We must intensify our efforts to effect a settlement of the crisis. The war is intensifying.
intensive adj. concentrated, focused, intensified, comprehensive, exhaustive, thorough(-going), all-out: The police have launched an intensive manhunt.
intention n. aim, purpose, intent, design, goal, end, object, objective, target, ambition: Was it your intention to stay till the fat lady sings?
intently adv. closely, attentively, concentratedly, earnestly, fixedly, unflinchingly, determinedly, searchingly, steadily, steadfastly, continuously, assiduously, doggedly, unremittingly, eagerly, keenly, studiously: They regarded one another intently across the table.
intercourse n. 1 commerce, traffic, trade, dealings, exchange, communication, contact, interaction: In normal business intercourse our paths often cross. 2 sexual intercourse, coitus, coition, sexual congress or union, mating, copulation, sexual relations, carnal knowledge, making love, lovemaking, intimacy, sexual connection, Colloq sex: The plaintiff admits engaging in intercourse with the defendant.
interested adj. 1 Also, interested in. engaged, absorbed, engrossed, drawn (to), attracted (by), involved (in), curious (about), fascinated (by), keen (on), stimulated (by), responsive (to), concerned (about): We talked about investing in my plastics company, and he seemed interested. She has become interested in designing jewellery. 2 concerned, involved, non-objective, partial, biased, prejudiced, prejudicial, partisan, predisposed: You cannot get an honest appraisal of the painting's value from an interested party.
interfere v. 1 meddle, intrude, butt in, intervene, intercede, interpose, interrupt, Colloq horn in, put or stick in one's oar or one's oar in, poke one's nose in, US kibitz: Stop interfering in things that do not concern you. 2 hinder, impede, hamper, block, obstruct, encumber, slow, retard, handicap, set back, get in the way of, frustrate, conflict, inhibit, trammel, subvert, sabotage: Allow nothing to interfere with the course of true love.
interior adj. 1 inside, internal, inner, inward: The interior surfaces are to be painted white. 2 internal, domestic, civil, national, local, home: We will not accept the interference of foreign governments in our interior affairs. 3 inner, private, intimate, personal, individual, secret, hidden, veiled: Some of Hamlet's great speeches are in the form of interior monologues, or soliloquies. 4 upland, inland, up-country, land-locked: The most beautiful scenery is in the interior part of the country, away from the marshy coast. --n. 5 inside: The interior is coated with Teflon. 6 heart, centre, middle, core, depths: This is the story of a journey to the interior of the earth. 7 uplands, up-country, heartland, hinterland: The interior is covered with rocks and scrub pine.
interlude n. interval, entr'acte, intermission, pause, stop, stoppage, respite, interruption, break, hiatus, lacuna, gap, halt, wait, breathing-space, recess, rest, spell, lull, Colloq let-up: There is a ten-minute interlude between the acts.
intermediate adj. 1 middle, in-between, medial, midway, halfway, transitional, intervening, intermediary: Middle schools cater for the age-range intermediate between primary and secondary schooling. In sublimation a substance changes from a gas to a solid (or vice versa ) , skipping the intermediate liquid state. 2 See intermediary.
intermittent adj. irregular, discontinuous, disconnected, sporadic, occasional, random, spasmodic, fitful, broken, periodic, alternating, cyclic(al), rhythmic(al), pulsating, seasonal, on-and-off, on-again-off-again, stop-and-go, stop-go: Tomorrow, intermittent showers in the morning will yield to sunshine. internal adj. See interior, 1, 2, 3.
interpret v. 1 explain, explicate, clear up, clarify, elucidate, illuminate, throw or shed light on, simplify, decipher, decode, define, spell out, make sense (out) of, translate, paraphrase: Would you interpret this clause of the agreement for me? 2 understand, construe, take (to mean), read, figure or work out, sort out, unravel: I haven't any idea how to interpret this poem.
interrogation n. questioning, examination, cross-examination, inquisition, investigation, Colloq third degree, grilling: Caught by the rebels, we were subjected to hours of interrogation.
interval n. 1 intermission, interlude, entr'acte, break, pause; recess, rest (period), period, time, wait, spell, delay, lapse: The play was so bad we left in the interval. After a brief interval, the lights came on again. 2 meanwhile, meantime, interim: He returned later but found that in the interval she had changed her mind. 3 gap, opening, space, hole, void, lacuna, distance, interstice, Architecture intercolumniation: The interval between the columns is exactly three metres.
interview n. 1 meeting, (press) conference, discussion, conversation, talk, question period, audience: The reporter phoned to ask for an interview. 2 evaluation, appraisal, vetting, assessment: I have a job interview scheduled for tomorrow. --v. 3 question, examine, interrogate, sound out, talk with or to: She interviewed the Prime Minister on television last night. 4 appraise, evaluate, check (out), vet: The headmaster himself interviews the teachers.
intimate v. hint, imply, suggest, insinuate, indicate, refer to, allude to, communicate, make known, give (someone) to understand, warn, caution, Colloq tip (off): He intimates that my wife will be a widow if I tell the police.
intolerance n. bias, prejudice, bigotry, discrimination, partiality, illiberality, narrow-mindedness, dogmatism; racism, racialism, sexism, classism, ageism, xenophobia: The government has legislated against intolerance of minorities.
intonation n. accent, accentuation, speech or sound pattern, delivery, modulation, articulation, pronunciation, vocalization, pitch, tone, inflection: You can tell the speaker's mood by his intonation.
intoxicating adj. 1 alcoholic, spirituous, inebriant: Do not drink intoxicating beverages if you plan to drive. 2 exhilarating, invigorating, thrilling, exciting, heady, stimulating, electrifying, entrancing, fascinating: Making a film of the life of Lola Montez is an intoxicating idea.
intricate adj. 1 involved, complicated, convoluted, entangled, tangled, knotty, complex, twisted, winding, tortuous, sinuous, anfractuous, labyrinthine, elaborate, Byzantine, fancy, ornate, rococo, Daedalian or Daedalean or Daedalic, Literary daedal or dedal: The plot was far too intricate and I became confused. 2 perplexing, puzzling, mystifying, enigmatic: The code was so intricate that even the computer needed hours to decipher the message.
intrinsic adj. inherent, basic, fundamental, essential, proper, elemental, organic, natural, native, inbred, congenital, inherited, hereditary, innate, inborn, immanent, indwelling, underlying, constitutional; real, true, actual, genuine: As no painting has intrinsic worth, its value is arbitrary.
introductory adj. 1 opening, prefatory, preliminary, preparatory, beginning, inaugural, initial: His 'introductory' remarks lasted longer than the speeches! 2 primary, basic, fundamental, elementary, first, rudimentary: Take an introductory course before enrolling for more advanced study.
intruder n. 1 interloper, gatecrasher, uninvited guest, unwelcome visitor; trespasser, encroacher, invader, infiltrator, squatter; burglar, thief: The intruders were quickly expelled by the guards. 2 meddler, busybody, Colloq snoop(er), Nosy Parker, US kibitzer: You are an intruder into my private affairs.
intuition n. instinct, insight, hunch, sixth sense, presentiment, premonition, foreboding; perception, perceptiveness, percipience, perspicacity, common sense, mother wit: Intuition told me I should find the answer here.
invalid adj. void, null (and void), nullified, annulled, repudiated, untrue, false, faulty, erroneous, wrong, spurious; incorrect, imperfect, impaired, unsound, untenable, ineffective: He was driving with an invalid licence. Your reasons for quitting school are invalid.
invariable adj. 1 unchanging, changeless, unvarying, invariant, unwavering, constant, steady, stable, regular; fixed, fast, set, rigid, uniform, unfailing, unexceptional: She is invariable in her opinion of a woman's right to abortion. His invariable routine calls for a dawn swim, regardless of the weather. 2 immutable, unchangeable, unalterable, unmodifiable: The law of supply and demand is invariable. 3 permanent, fixed, enduring, abiding, eternal, unaltered, unvarying, unchanged, unvaried, unaltered, unmodified: The positions of the stars appear to be invariable.
invent v. 1 create, devise, contrive, originate, think up, dream up, conceive, concoct, make up, imagine, formulate, improvise, design, hit upon; coin: He claims to have invented the toothpaste tube. 2 fabricate, make up, concoct, Colloq cook up: She invented that story about having been a lion-tamer.
invest v. 1 venture, lay out, put in, sink: She was persuaded to invest her life savings in unit trusts. 2 devote, allot, spend, contribute, supply, provide: We have invested a lot of time in cleaning up local government. 3 install or instal, inaugurate, induct, initiate, instate, establish, ordain, swear in, seat: He will be invested with the Order of Merit on Tuesday.
investigation n. enquiry or inquiry, examination, study, review, exploration, quest, search, probe, research, discovery procedure, scrutiny, analysis, inquest, inquisition, interrogation, questioning: Has the investigation turned up any evidence of collusion?
invincible adj. 1 unconquerable, unbeatable, indomitable, insuperable, undefeated, unstoppable: United look invincible, and are likely to retain the cup for a fourth successive season. 2 impregnable, invulnerable, impenetrable, indestructible, unassailable: The Romans believed the fortress to be invincible.
invitation n. 1 summons, request, call, bidding, Colloq invite: I am still waiting for my invitation to their wedding. 2 attraction, inducement, allure, allurement, enticement, temptation, magnetism, bait, lure, draw, pull: The possibility of going where no man had gone before was too great an invitation to ignore.
involuntary adj. unconscious, unintentional, unthinking, impulsive, spontaneous, unpremeditated, instinctive, instinctual, unwitting; automatic, reflex, mechanical, conditioned, uncontrolled, uncontrollable: When I was struck, my involuntary reaction was to strike back at once. At the mention of his name she gave an involuntary start.
involved adj. 1 implicated, concerned, affected, interested, active: The public enquiry was attended by all involved members of the community. 2 tangled, complicated, complex, twisted, snarled, convoluted, confused, confusing, intricate, tortuous, elaborate, knotty, Byzantine, labyrinthine: The plot is too involved to be followed easily. The involved problems of adolescence cannot be treated in a one-day conference. 3 involved with. associated with, entangled with, embroiled with, enmeshed with, Colloq mixed up with: Dennis is still very much involved with that singer from the Green Dragon.
irksome adj. irritating, annoying, vexing, vexatious, chafing, nettling, exasperating, bothersome, troublesome, burdensome, tiresome, tedious, boring, wearisome, uninteresting, Colloq aggravating, pestiferous: The mosquitoes are particularly irksome on muggy, windless evenings.
irrelevant adj. inappropriate, inapplicable, impertinent, unrelated, alien, inapposite, malapropos, beside the point, inapt, non-germane, unconnected, extraneous, neither here nor there, out of place, gratuitous, uncalled-for, Colloq out of the blue, off the beam, Slang off-the-wall: The name of the person who asked the question is entirely irrelevant.
irreproachable adj. blameless, unimpeachable, beyond reproach, unreprovable, faultless, innocent, above suspicion, impeccable, inculpable, honest, pure: Till now, Forsyth's record in the army has been irreproachable.
irresolute adj. vacillating, wavering, faltering, indecisive, infirm of purpose, in or US only of two minds, undecided, hesitant, hesitating, shifting, changing, erratic, uncertain, unsure, undetermined, unresolved, half-hearted, Colloq wishy-washy: You must act; this is no time to be irresolute.
irresponsible adj. careless, reckless, devil-may-care, unanswerable, unaccountable, non-liable, rash, unruly, wild; unreliable, undependable, untrustworthy, weak, feckless, ineffectual: Cyril is too irresponsible to take care of the children by himself.
irreverent adj. 1 blasphemous, impious, profane, sacrilegious, unholy, ungodly, irreligious: She was reprimanded for her irreverent attitude to morning prayers. 2 disrespectful, insulting, insolent, rude, discourteous, uncivil, derisive, impudent, impertinent, saucy, flippant, mocking, tongue-in-cheek, Colloq flip, cheeky: The prince did not appreciate being the butt of the irreverent skit.
irrevocable adj. irreversible, unchangeable, immutable, changeless, fixed, unalterable, settled, unrecallable, irretrievable, irrepealable, not undoable; irreparable, permanent, enduring, everlasting: The colonel says that his was an irrevocable order. That speech did you irrevocable harm.
irritate v. annoy, vex, nettle, pester, provoke, bother, anger, enrage, chafe, pique, exasperate, ruffle, hector, harass, harry, nag, plague, worry, fret, fluster, trouble, pick at or on, Colloq needle, get under (someone's) skin, get in (someone's) hair, hassle, peeve, get on (someone's) nerves, drive (someone) up the wall, get (someone's) hackles up, get (someone's) back up, drive (someone) crazy or mad, rub (someone) (up) the wrong way, Brit get up (someone's) nose, US burn (someone) up: All these stupid questions are beginning to irritate me.
isolate v. separate, segregate, sequester, cloister, detach, cut off, send to Coventry, ostracize, maroon, exclude, shut out, bar, debar, banish, deport, transport, exile, reject, eject, throw out, expel, shun, spurn, avoid, ignore, snub; quarantine; Colloq cut, give (someone) the cold shoulder: You cannot isolate a child from the pressures of modern society.
issue n. 1 outflow, outgoing, exit, egress, issuance, emanation, efflux, debouchment, emergence, outlet: The river's colour changed abruptly at its point of issue into the sea. 2 outcome, conclusion, consequence, culmination, result, end, effect, consummation, event, climax, Colloq pay-off: Whatever the issue, it has been a brave effort. 3 point, topic, subject, matter, affair, problem, question: That is an issue you should take up with the mayor. 4 Usually, major issue. (major or big) problem or difficulty, controversy, fight, dispute, cause clbre: He turns even walking the dog into a major issue. 5 printing, edition, version; copy, number: I have a copy of the Sunday issue. See if you can buy an issue of today's paper. 6 publication, promulgation, issuance, issuing, distribution, delivery, dissemination, broadcasting, proclamation, circulation: There will be a special issue of stamps to commemorate his death. 7 offspring, child or children, descendant(s), progeny, young, scion(s), son(s), daughter(s): According to the records, your uncle died without issue, making you his sole heir. 8 at issue. in contention, in dispute, unresolved, unsettled, uncertain, up in the air, to be decided: The point at issue is which system will be the most efficient. 9 take issue. disagree, argue, contend, dispute, oppose, take exception: I feel that I must take issue with your conclusion. --v. 10 proclaim, promulgate, declare, publish, put out, put or set forth, announce, circulate, distribute, get out, release, deliver, broadcast, disseminate, get out: The kidnappers have issued an ultimatum. 11 emerge, come or go forth, exit, emanate, discharge, stream, flow, pour; appear, originate, spring, stem, arise: The play ended, and people issued from the theatre. Where Pegasus stamped his foot the Pierian spring issued forth.
item n. 1 detail, article, point, particular, matter, thing, element, component, ingredient: There's one item I'd like you to keep in mind. 2 piece, mention, notice, note, memorandum, memo, filler, jotting: We often publish short items to fill out a column.
jabber v. 1 blether or US only blather, chatter, babble, gibber, gabble, prate, prattle, patter, drivel, rattle, Brit natter, Scots yatter, Colloq gab, gas, yap, witter: The couple behind me jabbered throughout the entire film. --n. 2 See jargon, 2.
jag n. spree, carouse, orgy, bout, Colloq binge, US and Canadian toot: She was terribly hung-over after last night's jag.
jail n. 1 Brit gaol, prison, lock-up, reformatory, Brit Borstal, US penitentiary, reform school, Nautical brig, Slang cooler, clink, can, jug, stir, slammer, Brit nick, quod, choky or chokey, US calaboose, big house, pen, coop, hoosegow, pokey: They were sent to jail for life. --v. 2 imprison, lock up, incarcerate, detain, confine, Brit send down, US send up (the river): He was jailed for 30 days.
jam v. 1 cram, force, push, wedge, stuff, press, ram, squeeze, shove, pack, crowd: We were jammed in so tightly that we couldn't move. 2 block, obstruct, congest, fill up, clog, plug, stop up: The toilet is jammed with paper again. 3 slam, activate, actuate: I jammed on the brakes. --n. 4 obstruction, blockage, blocking, block, congestion, tie-up, bottleneck, stoppage: She was stuck in a traffic jam for an hour. 5 crush, squeeze, crowd, mob, swarm, multitude, throng, mass, horde, pack, press: You wouldn't believe the jam of football fans at the cup final! 6 trouble, difficulty, predicament, quandary, dilemma, Colloq bind, fix, hole, pickle, hot water, (tight) spot, scrape: Harry helped me out of a jam once, and I won't forget it.
jangle v. 1 clatter, clash, rattle, clang, clank, crash, ring, jingle: The chains jangled as the prisoners marched to their cells. 2 jar, upset, irritate: The continuous screaming of the sirens jangled my nerves. --n. 3 jangling, clatter, clash, rattle, jarring, clang, clanging, clank, clanking, crash, clangour, noise, din, racket, clamour, dissonance, cacophony, reverberation, Literary stridor: I heard the jangle of the rag-and-bone man's cart in the next street.
jar v. 1 shake, agitate, disturb, stir, shock, jolt, jounce, bounce, jog, jerk, jiggle, joggle: Don't jar the oven or the cake will collapse. 2 disagree, conflict, clash, bicker, quarrel, wrangle, oppose, discord: She finds that her emotions about her ex-husband are jarring. 3 disturb, upset, disconcert, unsettle, disquiet, bother, trouble, vex, gall, offend, take aback, irritate, grate, irk, nettle, annoy: It jars me to think that they got off with light sentences. --n. 4 shock, start, jolt, surprise: Seeing Sam after all those years gave me quite a jar.
jaundiced adj. 1 coloured, tainted, distorted, twisted, prejudiced, opinionated, biased, preconceived, untrustworthy, bigoted, partial, unfair, perverted; dishonest, corrupt: Even the most jaundiced view must acknowledge the merits of the plan. 2 splenetic, cynical, bitter, envious, resentful, jealous, hostile, spiteful, unfriendly, disapproving, critical, unfavourable, disparaging, denigrating: I can't say that I agree with Cartwright's jaundiced review of the play.
jealous adj. 1 resentful, bitter, grudging, envious, covetous, green with envy, green-eyed: Brian is jealous of attention paid to anyone but himself. 2 distrustful, distrusting, mistrustful, mistrusting, suspicious; anxious, insecure, threatened, imperilled, vulnerable: Ken is very jealous of Kathleen. If anyone so much as looks at her, he feels jealous.
jeer v. 1 Often, jeer at. mock, laugh or scoff or sneer (at), flout, deride, ridicule, make fun of, thumb one's nose at, gibe or jibe, chaff, decry, twit, taunt, Colloq rag, bullyrag, roast, Brit cock a snook at, Brit and Australian barrack, Slang knock: Don't jeer at aromatherapy till you've tried it. --n. 2 taunt, gibe or jibe, aspersion, hoot, hiss, boo, catcall; derision, ridicule, obloquy: Just because he was fat, Christopher had to suffer the jeers of his classmates.
jeopardize v. endanger, imperil, threaten, menace, risk, hazard, venture: You may jeopardize your freedom if you stand up for your rights.
jerk v. 1 yank, wrench, pluck, nip, tug, twist, tweak: I jerked the dagger out of his hand, leaving him defenceless. 2 twitch, lurch, jolt, jump, start, jig, jiggle, wriggle, wiggle: The creature jerked about convulsively, screaming, then lay still. --n. 3 yank, pull, wrench, tug, twist, tweak: With a sharp jerk, he pulled the plaster from the child's leg. 4 lurch, jolt, start, bump: The train stopped with a jerk, throwing me off balance. 5 idiot, fool, moron, imbecile, Slang US dope, creep, yo-yo, nerd, dweeb: Why would she want to go out with a jerk like that?
jewellery n. gems, precious stones, jewels, ornaments, finery, bijouterie: Alexandra keeps her jewellery in a bank vault.
jilt v. throw over, reject, dismiss, drop, discard, desert, break (up) with, forsake, abandon, Colloq ditch, dump, brush off or give (someone) the brush-off, Chiefly US and Canadian give (someone) his or her walking papers: Angela met Tony and promptly jilted Mike.
jingoism n. chauvinism, flag-waving, superpatriotism, nationalism; hawkishness, warmongering, belligerence, bellicosity: 'Might makes right' is a basic tenet of jingoism.
jitters n.pl. shakes, fidgets, nerves, uneasiness, queasiness, nervousness, skittishness, restlessness, apprehension, apprehensiveness, Slang heebie-jeebies, willies US whim-whams: He always gets an attack of the jitters before an exam.
jog v. 1 trot, lope, dogtrot, run: I jog around the reservoir every morning for exercise. 2 jar, prod, nudge, arouse, stir, stimulate, prompt, activate, shake: I jogged his memory by referring to the time the dog bit him. 3 bounce, shake, jolt, joggle, jounce, jerk: I was being jogged about in the back of the van as we sped over the rocky terrain.
joint n. 1 seam, union, juncture, connection, junction, intersection: The joint won't show after the whole thing's been painted. 2 Slang dive, dump, US and Canadian honky-tonk: We went into a joint in Soho, looking for some action. 3 roast: Who carves the Sunday joint at your house? --adj. 4 shared, mutual, combined, collective, cooperative, common, communal, collaborative: Our aims can only be achieved by joint effort.
joke n. 1 jest, witticism, quip, bon mot, laugh, wordplay, pun, story, anecdote, Colloq gag, wisecrack, one-liner, crack: Ronnie comes up with the funniest jokes I have ever heard. 2 laughing-stock, butt, (fair) game, buffoon: After that incident, he became the joke of the regiment. 3 farce, mockery, absurdity, travesty, caricature: My efforts to play the piano became a joke. --v. 4 jest, quip, pun, frolic, wisecrack, tease, taunt, banter, chaff, fool, Colloq kid, US crack wise: They joked about our predicament. You must be joking if you think I'm going to go out with him!
jolly adj. 1 merry, cheerful, frolicsome, gay, jovial, joyful, sportive, convivial, jocund, jocose, jocular, frisky, coltish, playful, festive, jubilant, cheery, exuberant, high-spirited, animated: Everyone was in a jolly mood at her birthday party. --v. 2 Often, jolly along. humour, appease, deceive, string along, fool, hoax: They're just jollying him along because they want him to invest in their scheme.
jot v. 1 Usually, jot down. make a note of, write or note (down), put or set or take down, record: Jot down this telephone number. --n. 2 scrap, grain, (wee) bit, speck, mite, iota, whit, particle, tittle, Colloq slightest, US and Canadian tad, smidgen or smidgin: I don't care a jot what she thinks about the situation in Central America.
journalist n. reporter, newspaperman, newspaperwoman, correspondent, newsman, newswoman, member of the fourth estate, gentleman or lady of the press, stringer; columnist; hack; newscaster, anchorman, anchorwoman, commentator, broadcaster, Brit pressman, paragraphist; newsreader, Colloq scribe, newsmonger, US and Canadian legman, news-hawk, news-hound, news-hen: Journalists crowded round the minister, urging her to make a statement.
joy n. 1 pleasure, gratification, satisfaction, happiness, contentment, enjoyment, gladness, delight, felicity, elation, exaltation, ecstasy, bliss, exhilaration, exultation, rapture: We felt indescribable joy at seeing the children safe and sound. 2 gaiety, cheerfulness, cheer, glee, buoyancy, joviality, jollity, jocundity, joyfulness, joyousness, jubilation, merriment, light-heartedness, blithesomeness: Let me wish you joy in this holiday season. 3 delight, pleasure, treat, blessing, gratification, satisfaction, prize: A thing of beauty is a joy forever.
joyless adj. 1 sad, unhappy, miserable, depressed, dejected, mournful, downhearted, downcast, down, despondent, dispirited, melancholy, heavy-hearted, cheerless, doleful, grief-stricken, disheartened, saddened, crestfallen, wretched, disconsolate, inconsolable, morose, heartsick, sorrowful, woeful, woebegone: It was a joyless company that stood at the grave side. The cat died, the dog died, and my husband was ill - all in all, a joyless time. 2 gloomy, depressing, dispiriting, disheartening, dreary, lugubrious, cheerless, dismal, bleak, inhospitable, desolate, grim, austere, severe: The shuttered, joyless house loomed out of the misty moor ahead.
judgement n. 1 judgment, discretion, discernment, discrimination, judiciousness, prudence, wisdom, wit, sagacity, perspicacity, clear-headedness, perception, perspicuousness, percipience, acumen, intelligence, (good) sense, common sense, level-headedness, understanding, shrewdness: Charlotte's judgement is often sought in such matters. 2 decision, ruling, verdict, conclusion, determination, opinion, adjudication, finding, decree, order; outcome, result, upshot: The judgement of the court is final. It was the judgement of Paris to award the golden apple to Aphrodite. 3 criticism, censure, disapproval, reproof, condemnation: They offered a moral, not a legal judgement. 4 opinion, view, belief, (way of) thinking, mind, perception; sentiment: In my judgement, she is innocent. 5 evaluation, valuation, appraisal, estimation, assessment: One critic's unfavourable judgement of a play can spell its doom.
judicious adj. sensible, commonsensical, sound, sober, intelligent, aware, enlightened, wise, sage, sapient, thoughtful, reasonable, rational, sane, logical, discerning, discriminating, discriminative, astute, perceptive, percipient, perspicacious, well-advised, (well-)informed, prudent, discreet, tactful, diplomatic, politic, careful, considered, circumspect: The treasurer was considered not to have made judicious use of the club's funds.
juggle v. manipulate, tamper with, falsify, fix, rig, distort, misstate, misrepresent, alter, arrange, Colloq doctor, cook: The accountant refused a bribe to juggle the company's books.
juicy adj. 1 succulent, moist, lush: This is a very juicy pear. 2 interesting, sensational, lurid, colourful, vivid, exciting, stirring, thrilling, intriguing, fascinating, provocative, suggestive, racy, spicy, risqu: I've got such a juicy piece of gossip for you!
jumbo adj. huge, gigantic, enormous, elephantine, immense, oversized, king-sized, Colloq US humongous: Grandad brought us a jumbo box of chocolates.
jumpy adj. nervous, agitated, anxious, jittery, fidgety, restless, edgy, on edge, tense, shaky, skittish, fretful, uneasy, queasy, restive, panicky: Do you think he was jumpy because we were approaching Count Dracula's castle?
juncture n. 1 See junction. 2 point, time, moment, stage, period: At this juncture, suggesting a merger seems premature.
junk n. 1 rubbish, waste, refuse, litter, debris, scrap; US garbage, trash: A man came to cart away the junk that we had cleared out of the garage. --v. 2 Colloq discard, throw away, scrap, cast aside, jettison, US trash: We bought a new washing-machine and junked the old one.
jurisdiction n. authority, power, prerogative, dominion, sovereignty, say, control, rule, ascendancy, hegemony, influence; province, district, area, bailiwick, compass, realm, sphere (of influence), reach, clutches, range, orbit: Tierra del Fuego seems a bit far to go just to be outside the jurisdiction of the Inland Revenue.
justify v. vindicate, legitimate, legitimatize or legitimize, legalize, rationalize, substantiate, defend, support, uphold, sustain, validate, warrant, confirm; excuse, explain, absolve, acquit, exculpate: My worst fears were justified. How can you justify owning three cars?
juvenile adj. 1 young, youthful, under age, minor, teenage(d), immature, adolescent, childish, infantile, babyish, puerile, unsophisticated: What could be more juvenile than painting graffiti on public buildings. --n. 2 youth, boy, girl, adolescent, minor, Law infant: The police have arrested two juveniles for attacking an old lady in her own home.
keen v. 1 weep, wail, moan, lament, mourn, grieve; bewail, bemoan: Finnegan's widow still keens over him. --n. 2 dirge, elegy, knell, lament, lamentation, Requiem, monody, threnody, thanatopsis, epicedium , Scots and Irish coronach: The keens could be heard throughout the neighbourhood.
keeper n. custodian, guardian, guard, warden, caretaker; warder, nurse, attendant, Brit minder: The keepers are very strict about not letting people feed the animals. How come they let you out without your keeper?
keg n. cask, barrel, butt, hogshead, tun, puncheon: We bought a keg of beer for the party.
keystone n. necessity, crux, linchpin, basis, principle, foundation, cornerstone: Predestination was the keystone of his religion. kick v. 1 boot, punt: The basic aim in soccer is to kick the ball into the back of the net. 2 recoil, backlash, rebound: The shotgun kicked when I fired it. --n. 3 punt, drop-kick: His kick sent the ball down the field. 4 recoil, backlash, rebound: That gun has quite a kick!
kidnap v. abduct, capture, seize, carry off, Slang snatch: He was kidnapped by guerrillas and held prisoner for over two years.
killer n. 1 murderer, assassin, slayer, cutthroat, butcher, exterminator, Bluebeard, (Jack the) ripper, Slang US torpedo, hit man, triggerman, gunsel, hooligan, gunfighter, iceman, hatchet man: What are the statistics on the number of killers who are not caught? 2 Slang old-fashioned bee's knees, US humdinger, doozy, killer-diller (from Manila), lallapalooza or lollapalooza, lulu, daisy, dilly: The new show at the Odeon is a killer.
killjoy n. spoilsport, damper, dampener, grouch, grump, malcontent, pessimist, cynic, prophet of doom, Cassandra, Colloq wet blanket, sourpuss, US party pooper, gloomy Gus, picklepuss: Go to the dance and stop being such a killjoy!
kind adj. friendly, kindly, nice, congenial, affable, approachable, amiable, obliging, accommodating, amicable, well-disposed, courteous, good, good-natured, benevolent, well-meaning, well-wishing, thoughtful, well-intentioned, generous, big-hearted, humanitarian, charitable, philanthropic, gentle, understanding, sympathetic, considerate, lenient, tolerant, indulgent, compassionate, kind-hearted, gracious, warm, warm-hearted, cordial, tender-hearted, affectionate: It was kind of you to stop and help us. I never thought of him as a kind man.
kindle v. ignite, light, set alight, set fire to, set afire, inflame, fire, foment, incite, instigate, provoke, prompt, prick, goad, spur, whip up, stir (up), work up, excite, agitate, shake up, jolt, arouse, rouse, (a)waken, inspire, inspirit, stimulate, animate, enliven, energize, innervate, galvanize: Kindling a fire in the rain is not easy. The wholesale pillaging kindled a feeling of deep resentment among the native population. kindly adj. 1 See kind. --adv. 2 cordially, graciously, obligingly, amiably, amicably, politely, genially, courteously, thoughtfully, considerately, hospitably, agreeably, pleasantly: He very kindly invited me in for a cup of tea. 3 please, be so kind as to, be good enough to: Would you kindly pass the salt?
kindred adj. 1 close, associated, united, allied, analogous, like, similar, matching, parallel, common, related; akin: Because we both like sports, Samantha's interests are kindred to mine. 2 related, consanguineous, consanguine, cognate, agnate: Linguists regard the Romance languages as kindred tongues. --n. 3 See kin, 1.
kingdom n. 1 realm, empire, sovereignty, principality, monarchy: He sought a suitable wife throughout the kingdom. 2 field, area, domain, province, sphere (of influence), territory, bailiwick, Colloq turf: The operating theatre is the surgeon's kingdom.
kinky adj. 1 outlandish, peculiar, odd, queer, quirky, bizarre, crotchety, eccentric, strange, idiosyncratic, different, offbeat, unorthodox, capricious, irregular, erratic, unconventional, unique, freakish, weird, fantastic, whimsical: This school is not interested in kinky notions of education. 2 perverted, unnatural, deviant, degenerate, warped, abnormal, depraved: There is a rumour that they engage in kinky sex. 3 crisp, frizzy, frizzed, frizzled, curly, crimped, wiry; knotted, tangled, twisted: He has kinky red hair.
kiss v. 1 osculate, peck, Colloq smack, smooch, neck, Old-fashioned spoon, canoodle: I kissed her on the cheek. A young couple were kissing on the park bench. 2 touch, brush, graze: The cue-ball barely kissed the black, toppling it into the pocket. 3 kiss goodbye. bid adieu, say farewell to, give up, relinquish, abandon, forsake, desert, renounce, repudiate, forget (about), dismiss, disregard, ignore: With those marks, you can kiss goodbye to any thought of winning a scholarship. --n. 4 osculation, peck, Colloq smack, smooch, US and Canadian buss, Slang Brit smacker: He ran over and gave me a big hug and a kiss.
kitchen n. kitchenette, cookhouse; scullery, pantry, larder; Nautical galley, Brit caboose: He was in the kitchen getting dinner ready.
kitty n. pot, pool, collection: Has he contributed anything to the kitty?
knit v. 1 join or fasten or weave (together), interweave, interlace, interconnect, intertwine, link, bind, unite, tie (up or together), consolidate, combine, compact: He was the first king to succeed in knitting together the diverse elements of the empire. 2 grow (together), heal, mend, join: The broken bones will knit in about a month. 3 furrow, contract, wrinkle, knot, crease: He knit his brow and sighed.
knock v. 1 strike, hit, rap, thwack, whack, thump, bang, tap: Knock on the door. He knocked the man on the head with his walking-stick. 2 Colloq criticize, deprecate, carp or cavil at, disparage, put down, run down: Don't knock something till you've tried it. 3 knock about or around. a wander, roam, ramble, rove, travel, gad about: She's going to knock about the world for a bit before settling down. b associate with, consort with: He was only knocking about with some of the boys. c discuss, debate, talk over, Colloq kick about or around: I have a business proposition that I want to knock around with you. d beat (up), maltreat, mistreat, maul, manhandle, batter, abuse, hit, strike: He's been known to knock his wife about. 4 knock down. a raze, demolish, destroy, level, wreck, lay in ruins, throw or pull down: They knocked down those beautiful old houses and erected an ugly office block in their place. b fell, floor, cut down: As soon as he got up, McCloskey knocked him down again. 5 knock off. Colloq a stop work(ing), quit, go home, clock off or out, terminate, lock up, close down: I think I'll knock off for a few hours' rest. b steal, pilfer, thieve, rob, Colloq lift, Brit pinch, Slang Brit nick, US knock over: Two men in balaclavas knocked off the bank in the High Street. c See kill, 1. d make quick or short work of, complete, finish, bring to an end, Colloq polish off: He knocked off that book in a week. e US copy, imitate: They knock off expensive items, then sell them for much less than the originals. 6 knock out. a knock or render unconscious, floor, prostrate, trounce, whip, Slang flatten, KO or kayo: The smart money says that the challenger will knock out the champion in the third round. b overwhelm, overcome, daze, stagger, astound, astonish, bewilder, stun, Colloq bowl over, blow (someone's) mind, Slang Brit knock for six: She'll really knock them out in that dress! 7 knock up. a knock or put together, improvise: I think I can knock up something quickly that will pass muster. b arouse, (a)waken, wake up: They knocked me up at dawn to go to work. c Slang impregnate, get with child, make pregnant: Her boyfriend knocked her up and then refused to marry her. --n. 8 blow, rap, tap, thump, pounding, hammering: I was woken by a knock on the wall from my neighbour. 9 blow, punch, jab, smack, thwack, whack, right, left, cuff, Colloq clout, bop, biff, conk: He gave me a knock on the nose, and it started to bleed. 10 slap (in the face), censure, criticism, condemnation, slur, insult: My latest novel took quite a few knocks from the reviewers.
knockout n. 1 coup de grce, Slang KO, kayo: Carnera won by a knockout in the first round. 2 success, sensation, triumph, Colloq hit, winner, smash, smash hit, stunner: She looks a knockout with her new hairstyle.
knot n. 1 snarl, gnarl, tangle; tie, bond: I cannot loosen this knot. 2 collection, assemblage, aggregation, congregation, crowd, cluster, bunch, gathering, company, band, gang, crowd, throng: A small knot of people were standing in front of my painting. --v. 3 fasten, tie, bind, secure, lash, tether, affix, fix, attach: I knotted the rope around his neck.
knowing adj. 1 conspiratorial or conspiratory, secret, private; significant, meaningful, eloquent, expressive; shrewd, canny, artful, sly, wily, crafty: She gave him a knowing wink. 2 wise, clever, shrewd, (well-)informed, knowledgeable or knowledgable, aware, expert, qualified, astute, perceptive, intelligent, sagacious: Harold is quite knowing about horses, why not ask him?
knowledgeable adj. 1 knowledgable, aware, au fait, au courant, up to date, (well-)informed, (well-)acquainted, cognizant, familiar, enlightened, expert, knowing, Colloq in the know: She is knowledgeable about events in eastern Europe. 2 well-educated, erudite, learned, cultured, well-read, intelligent, sophisticated, worldly, wise, sage, sagacious: Professor Evans is one of the most knowledgeable people I have ever met.
label n. 1 identification, identifier, ID, mark, marker, earmark, tag, ticket, sticker, stamp, imprint, hallmark, brand, Brit docket: The label shows the weight, composition, and price of the contents. A proper shipping label should show both source and destination. 2 name, denomination, designation, appellation, nickname, epithet, sobriquet, classification, characterization, description: It is difficult to give a label to the kind of novels she writes. 3 trade mark, trade name, brand, logo, mark: Many supermarket chains market products under their own label. --v. 4 identify (as), mark, tag, earmark, ticket, stamp, hallmark, imprint, brand, Brit docket: In those days, every liberal was labelled a communist. Prepared food packages must be labelled with their ingredients. 5 name, denominate, designate, call, term, dub, classify, categorize, pigeon-hole, class, characterize, describe, portray, identify, Colloq US peg: We cannot label Voltaire either spiritualist or materialist.
labour n. 1 toil, (hard) work, travail, exertion, effort, laboriousness, strain, drudgery, pains, industry, slavery, donkey-work, Colloq sweat, grind, elbow-grease, Brit swot: They know the labour involved in building a road. 2 employees, workers, wage-earners, labourers: A meeting between labour and management is scheduled for today. 3 effort, task, job, chore, undertaking: Raising funds for the museum was a labour of love. 4 travail, childbirth, parturition, labour pains, contractions, delivery: She went into labour at midnight, and the twins were born just after four. --v. 5 work, toil, travail, drudge, strain, strive, struggle, slave, Colloq sweat, grind, Brit peg away (at), swot: We laboured hard to get where we are today. 6 dwell on, overdo, overemphasize, harp on, overstress, strain, Colloq belabour: I heard you the first time, so don't labour the point. 7 labour under. be burdened or troubled or distressed by, be deluded or deceived by, be disadvantaged by, suffer, endure: He is labouring under a misapprehension. She labours under the impression that she will not be affected by a lack of education.
labourer n. worker, workman, hand, blue-collar worker, working man, manual worker, drudge, Colloq Brit navvy: Get some labourers to clear away that rubble.
lace n. 1 lace-work, tatting, openwork, filigree, mesh, web, webbing, net, netting, network: She wore a collar of handmade lace. 2 shoelace, shoestring, bootlace, cord, string, thong, tie, lacing: They made me remove my belt, tie, and laces before locking me in a cell. --v. 3 thread, weave, string, twine, interweave, intertwine: First lace the cord through the eyelets, then draw it tight. 4 spike, fortify, strengthen: I saw her lace my punch with vodka, so I didn't drink it. 5 lace into. a attack, assault, beat, assail, thrash, belabour, fall on or upon, set upon, pounce on or upon, lay into, Colloq light into: The brothers laced into one another with a fury. b berate, scold, revile, attack, upbraid, castigate, rant or rave at: She really laced into me for being an hour late for dinner.
lack n. 1 want, deficiency, dearth, absence, scarcity, shortage, need, insufficiency, paucity, deficit, inadequacy: We suffered from a severe lack of water. The orchestra is experiencing a serious lack of talent at the moment. --v. 2 want, need, require, be deficient in, be or fall short of, be without: He lacks the votes needed to win. Simon lacks the ability to paint any better.
lacklustre adj. drab, dull, lustreless, flat, dingy, colourless, dismal, dreary, unexciting, boring, prosaic, tiresome, tedious, wearisome, uninteresting, two-dimensional, insipid, vapid, bland, unimaginative, thick, slow, dense, Colloq wishy-washy, blah: He gave a very lacklustre performance as Shylock. She has been leading a lacklustre life since John left.
ladylike adj. well-bred, well-born, aristocratic, noble; refined, respectable, cultured, polished, elegant, mannerly, gracious, genteel, courteous, polite, courtly, dignified, proper, correct, decorous: I cannot believe that Mrs Gibson did not behave in a ladylike way.
laggard n. straggler, idler, dawdler, loiterer, slouch, sluggard, loafer, snail, loller, Colloq Brit slowcoach , US slowpoke: As a young boy he was always the laggard, dragging along behind everyone else.
laissez-faire n. laisser-faire, laissez-faireism, free enterprise, non-intervention, non-interference, freedom, free trade, individualism, laissez-aller or laisser-aller, deregulation, decontrol, laxness: The government's policy of laissez-faire has spurred business on.
lame adj. 1 crippled, disabled, handicapped, hobbled, limping, incapacitated, impaired, halting, halt, spavined, Colloq US gimpy: The mare was found to be lame after the previous day's hunting. 2 feeble, weak, flimsy, thin, unconvincing, unpersuasive, awkward, clumsy, poor, ineffective, Colloq half-baked: Refusing to go because you have a headache sounds like a pretty lame excuse to me.
lamentable adj. deplorable, wretched, miserable, terrible, distressing, awful, regrettable, pitiful, despicable, intolerable, unfortunate: The hall was left in a lamentable state after the party. His death was presaged by a lamentable series of events.
lampoon n. 1 burlesque, caricature, satire, parody, pasquinade or pasquil, squib, Colloq take-off, Brit send-up: The students published a hilarious lampoon of the teaching staff. --v. 2 burlesque, caricature, satirize, parody, pasquinade or pasquil, mock, ridicule, squib, US skewer, Colloq take off, put or run down, Brit send up: The cows we hold most sacred are often lampooned by irreverent cartoonists.
land n. 1 earth, (solid) ground, terra firma: After weeks in an open boat, Captain Bligh was relieved to have land under his feet again. 2 dirt, earth, soil, turf, sod, loam, mould: Trumble tilled the land as his ancestors had done for generations. 3 property, grounds, real property or realty or US and Canadian also real estate, acreage; estate: How much land goes with the house? 4 fatherland, motherland, nation, country, homeland, native land: The land of our fathers flowed with milk and honey. --v. 5 arrive, alight, light, touch or come or go down, splash down, settle on or upon, come to rest, berth, dock, disembark, debark, go ashore, deplane, dismount: The plane was forced to land on the water. We land at dawn. 6 catch, capture, take captive, Colloq bag: He was unable to land the shark unaided. 7 Colloq get, secure, obtain, win, acquire: He finally landed a job with his father-in-law. Sadie finally landed a millionaire!
landlady n. 1 proprietor or proprietress, lady of the house, mistress, manager or Brit manageress, hostess: My landlady owns three bed and breakfasts. 2 See landlord, 2, below.
landmark n. 1 feature, guide, guidepost; identification: The tower serves as a landmark for those seeking the castle. 2 turning-point, watershed, milestone, monument: His essay remains a landmark in philosophical thought. --attributive 3 critical, crucial, pivotal, important, historic, significant, precedent-setting, momentous, notable, noteworthy, major: This stands out as a landmark decision in the annals of criminal law.
language n. 1 speech, tongue, idiom, parlance, dialect, idiolect, patois, jargon, cant, argot, vernacular, Colloq lingo: How many languages do you speak? 2 communication, intercourse, interaction: Karl von Frisch studied the language of the bees. 3 jargon, lingua franca, vocabulary, terminology, vernacular, Colloq lingo: In medical language, a head cold is called 'coryza'. 4 wording, words, phrasing, phraseology, style, diction: Guarantees, insurance policies, and other such things should be written in simple language.
lap v. 1 Often, lap up. lick up, tongue; sip, drink: In a moment, the cat had lapped all the cream from the saucer. 2 wash, splash, ripple, plash, purl: The water rose till it was lapping at the doorstep. 3 lap up. a consume, drink, eat: The dog lapped up every last scrap of food. b accept, believe, credit, fall for, Colloq swallow (whole), buy: She lapped up Felix's sob story and invited him in at once.
lapse n. 1 slip, error, mistake, fault, failing, oversight, blunder, shortcoming, omission, Formal lapsus, Colloq slip-up, fluff, goof: Apart from a brief lapse, the child behaved very well. Owing to a lapse, your payment was not credited. 2 gap, break, interval, intermission, interruption, pause, lacuna, hiatus, Prosody caesura, Colloq hold-up: Listeners in Scotland experienced a lapse in transmission, for which we apologize. 3 decline, lowering, fall, deterioration, drop, diminution, descent: There has been a serious lapse in church attendance. --v. 4 decline, lower, fall, drop, diminish, sink, slip, slump, subside, deteriorate: Despite the doctor's best efforts, he lapsed into a coma. 5 run out, expire, be discontinued, become void, terminate, end, cease, stop: Your option to sell the shares at the offering price lapses on Friday. 6 pass, elapse, go by, slip away: Three months had lapsed since she last saw him.
largely adv. chiefly, mainly, as a rule, by and large, generally, in general, to a great extent, mostly, in great part, in great measure, in the main, on the whole, pretty much, essentially, at bottom, basically, fundamentally: The voters are largely in favour of keeping the present government.
lark n. 1 frolic, spree, escapade, caper, fling, romp, adventure, revel, jape, game, antic, horseplay, shenanigans, mischief, prank, practical joke: The boys say they took the horse just as a lark. --v. 2 Often, lark about. frolic, caper, romp, revel, play, sport, cavort, gambol, Colloq skylark: We spent a lot of time larking about after our exams.
lash n. 1 whip, scourge, cat-o'-nine-tails, cat, quirt, knout, bull-whip, thong; rope's end: The bosun gave him twenty of the best with his lash. 2 stroke, blow, strike, slash, cut: Few could stand up after five lashes with his whip. --v. 3 flog, beat, thrash, switch, whip, scourge, horsewhip, lambaste, flail, smite, thwack, Colloq whack: Any boy was liable to be lashed for the most trivial misdemeanour. 4 lash out. attack, flay, lambaste, belabour, punish; criticize, berate, scold: She often lashes out at her critics quite virulently.
lass n. girl, young woman, miss, mademoiselle, schoolgirl, Old-fashioned maiden, maid, damsel, demoiselle; Scots lassie, Irish colleen: He has married a young lass from Arbroath.
last adj. 1 hindmost, rearmost, aftermost; final: I was the last person to board the plane. 2 latest, newest, most recent or up to date: What was the subject of his last novel? During the last week I have seen seven films. 3 final, concluding, terminal, ultimate, terminating: The last train to London leaves at eleven. She was the last speaker of Cornish. 4 definitive, conclusive, decisive, closing: That is my last word on the subject. --adv. 5 behind, at or in the end, in or at the rear, after: My horse always seems to come in last. --n. 6 end, termination, finish: That was the last we ever saw of Charlie. 7 at last. finally, eventually, ultimately, at length: At last we shall see the results of our work.
last n. mould, matrix, form, model, pattern: These shoes were not made on the same last as those.
late adj. 1 tardy, delayed, overdue, behindhand, dilatory, unpunctual; belated, US past due: He was even late for his own wedding. Better late than never. Your mortgage payment is late again. 2 recent, last, new, fresh, current, up to date: Have you got a copy of a late edition of today's newspaper? 3 deceased, departed, dead; former, past, ex-, recent, previous, preceding, old (See also 5, below): Here is a song by the late, great Bing Crosby. He has a meeting with Lord Pamby, late chairman of United Oxidation. 4 of late. See 5., below. --adv. 5 recently, lately, previously, formerly, once, heretofore, in recent or former time(s), of late, latterly (See also 3, above): They are dining tonight with Sir Keith, late of Scotland Yard. 6 till or at an advanced hour or time: I was up late last night. She married late. 7 tardily, unpunctually, belatedly: We arrived too late for the first act. 8 recently, lately: As late as a week ago they were still holding the job open for her.
lather n. 1 suds, froth, foam: He spread lather on his face and began to shave. 2 sweat; dither, fuss, pother, flutter, Colloq tizzy, state, flap: He got into a real lather when he missed the train. --v. 3 soap (up); foam, froth: The barber lathered my chin thoroughly. 4 thrash, beat, belabour, maul, drub, flog, whack, pummel, buffet, whip, flail, lash: If he dared to swear, his father would lather him.
laudable adj. praiseworthy, meritorious, creditable, admirable, outstanding, excellent, noteworthy, notable, commendable, estimable, creditable: He has made a laudable effort to keep up in his work.
laugh v. 1 titter, giggle, snigger, snicker, chuckle, chortle, guffaw, split one's sides, Colloq break or crack up, roll on the floor, go into hysterics, roar with laughter, hoot: Whenever he wore his hat, they couldn't stop laughing. 2 Often, laugh at. a deride, ridicule, mock (at), jeer (at), make a mockery of, poke fun (at), make fun or sport (of), make an ass or a fool (out) of, tease, taunt, pull (someone's) leg, satirize, pasquinade or pasquil, parody, lampoon, jest (at), joke (about), scoff (at), scorn, Colloq Brit take the mickey out of, US roast: They laughed when I sat down - I didn't know the chair was broken. Why did the other children laugh at you? b laugh away or off, spurn, dismiss, brush aside, minimize, shrug off, reject, ignore, disregard, deny, belittle, Colloq pooh-pooh: He laughed off his injury and insisted on continuing to work. --n. 3 titter, giggle, snigger, snicker, chuckle, chortle, guffaw, horse laugh: She would do anything for a laugh.
launch v. 1 start (off), set in motion, set or get going, begin, embark upon or on, initiate, inaugurate: The council is about to launch a scheme for dockside development. The attack was launched at dawn. 2 originate, establish, organize, set up, found, open, start: Robson is talking about launching a new company. 3 shoot, fire, discharge, hurl, throw, sling, pitch, fling, catapult, send, dispatch or despatch: The enemy launched ground-to-air missiles against our planes. 4 float, set afloat: Two frigates will be launched today. --n. 5 inauguration, start, initiation, opening: The launch of the offensive is scheduled for noon tomorrow. 6 boat, skiff, tender, motor boat, runabout, gig, dinghy: The launch will shuttle passengers between the pier and the cruise ship.
laurels n.pl. honour(s), distinction(s), fame, awards, tributes, rewards, acclaim, acclamation, glory, renown, celebrity, popularity, reputation; successes, accomplishments: With no new fields to conquer, he is resting on his laurels.
lavish adj. 1 profuse, abundant, liberal, copious, plentiful, prolific, opulent: He wore a silk tunic with lavish gold embroidery. 2 generous, liberal, open-handed, unstinting, bountiful, unsparing, unselfish, effusive, free: She showered the most lavish gifts on her children. 3 extravagant, wasteful, exaggerated, prodigal, improvident, excessive, unreasonable, immoderate, profligate, uncurbed, unrestrained, intemperate: The council was accused of lavish overspending on the civic centre. --v. 4 squander, waste, throw away, dissipate, spend, expend, sink: We lavished a fortune on the gardens. 5 shower, bestow, thrust, heap, pour: Granny always lavished gifts on us.
lawful adj. 1 legal, licit, legitimate, de jure, constitutional, just, rightful, valid, proper: I am the lawful heir. 2 permissible, allowable, justifiable, authorized, allowed, permitted: It is not lawful to let your dog foul the footpath.
lawn n. sward, greensward, turf, sod, green: I lay back on the lawn and gazed at the sky.
lax adj. 1 loose, slack, casual, slipshod, easygoing, careless, negligent, permissive, weak, indulgent, flexible, relaxed: Law enforcement has always been lax in that city. 2 imprecise, undefined, indefinite, non-specific, unspecific, vague, shapeless, amorphous, general, broad, inexact, hit-or-miss, careless, untidy, Colloq sloppy: His ideas about tactics are too lax for a military man.
lay adj. 1 secular, non-clerical, laic, non-ecclesiastical: He served as a lay preacher for many years. 2 amateur, non-professional, non-specialist: Members of the lay public did not immediately understand the dangers of the greenhouse effect.
lazy adj. 1 indolent, slothful, dilatory, idle, shiftless, inactive, listless, fainant, otiose, slack, lax, lethargic: He's so lazy and so rich that he pays someone just to walk his dog. 2 slow, languid, easy, easygoing, sluggish, slow-moving, languorous: The hot lazy summer days were whiled away fishing.
leaden adj. 1 heavy, onerous, ponderous, dense, burdensome: Exhausted, he dragged his leaden feet to the next meeting. 2 heavy, dull, numbing, oppressive: I was happy to escape the leaden atmosphere of the theatre. 3 grey, dull, dingy, gloomy, glowering, lowering, dreary, dismal, oppressive, dark, sullen, sombre: The leaden sky seemed to forebode disaster as he fled across the moor. 4 inert, lifeless, listless, sluggish, inanimate, inactive, lethargic, languid, languorous, torpid, spiritless, stagnant, static, dormant, soporific, sleepy: The refugees trudged along at a leaden pace.
leadership n. direction, guidance, management, directorship, administration, supervision, command, regulation, control, operation, influence, initiative; governorship, superintendence, running: The company made huge profits under Katherine's leadership. The leadership of the country at this time was in the hands of the privileged class.
leaflet n. folder, circular, brochure, handbill, bill, booklet, advertisement, US and Canadian throw-away, flier or flyer, Colloq Brit advert: The candidate gave out leaflets urging us to vote for him.
league n. 1 confederation, association, alliance, combination, coalition, federation, confederacy, guild, society, fraternity, union, band, fellowship, club: The teams in the south favour forming a football league of their own. 2 in league (with). allied (with), united (with), associated (with), leagued (with), federated (with), collaborating (with), conspiring (with), in collusion (with), Colloq in cahoots (with): The suspects are said to be in league with saboteurs. --v. 3 ally, unite, associate, band, combine, collaborate, join (forces), conspire, collude: Did most people league with the rebels or the official government?
lean adj. 1 thin, slim, slender, rangy, spare, wiry, lanky, lank, skinny, angular, bony, raw-boned, gaunt, gangling, gangly, spare, meagre, skeletal, scraggy, scrawny, haggard, emaciated, pinched, wasted, shrunken, macilent: He has the lean leggy build typical of a runner. 2 unfruitful, unproductive, barren, infertile, poor, meagre, scanty, bare, arid, sparse, impoverished: The Kanes tried for years to eke a living from the lean soil. 3 impoverished, destitute, needy, poverty-stricken, penurious, indigent, necessitous, hard, bad, difficult: The Depression was a lean period for most people.
leaning n. bent, inclination, bias, prejudice, favouritism, partiality, predilection, liking, taste, preference, penchant, sympathy, tendency, tendentiousness: The judges' leanings in favour of short-haired dogs are well known.
learn v. 1 Often, learn of. find out, discover, hear (of), chance or hit upon, understand, gather, have revealed to one; determine, ascertain, uncover: I learned today that you are leaving. I learned of your plans yesterday. 2 be taught, be instructed in, master, become proficient (in), acquire knowledge (of): I learned German at school. 3 understand, see the light, get the picture, Colloq catch on, get the idea, get it, Brit twig: No matter how often they are told, some people never learn. 4 memorize, commit to memory, learn by heart: Bolton was told to learn his part by the next day.
learner n. student, pupil, scholar, trainee, apprentice, novice, tiro or tyro, abecedarian, beginner, initiate, neophyte: Learners of English as a second language will benefit from this book.
lease n. 1 rental agreement or contract, sublease, sublet: A new ten-year lease will be signed tomorrow. --v. 2 rent (out), let (out), sublet (out), sublease (out), charter (out), hire (out): They leased their home to us for the summer. We arranged to lease their boat for the weekend.
leave n. 1 permission, authorization, consent, freedom, liberty, licence, sanction, dispensation: Who gave you leave to borrow my car? 2 furlough, leave of absence, time off, sabbatical, recess, holiday, vacation: I am overworked and badly in need of some leave. 3 departure: He took his leave of us at last.
lecture n. 1 speech, address, talk, discourse, disquisition, treatise, dissertation, paper, lesson, instruction, sermon, declamation, harangue, diatribe, philippic, screed: The preacher delivered a lecture on the evils of drink. 2 reproof, reprimand, rebuke, criticism, censure, reproach, scolding, upbraiding, chiding, berating, tongue-lashing, remonstration, Colloq dressing-down, telling-off, Slang Brit wigging, US and Canadian chewing-out: I had to listen to another lecture about staying out late. --v. 3 make or deliver or give a speech or address or talk, discourse; sermonize, hold forth, moralize, pontificate, orate, preach, declaim, expound, go on about, harangue: She lectures on Chinese art of the 18th century. He insists on lecturing to everyone he meets. 4 reprove, reprimand, rebuke, reproach, scold, upbraid, berate, chide, tongue-lash, remonstrate with, rail at, fulminate against; admonish, warn; Colloq dress down, tell off, send (someone) away or off with a flea in his or her ear, Slang Brit wig, US and Canadian chew out: She is always lecturing me about keeping my room tidy.
leery adj. suspicious, sceptical, dubious, doubtful, doubting, distrustful, wary, cautious, chary, careful: I was very leery of his story.
left adj. 1 left-hand, sinistral, Nautical port, (formerly) larboard, Heraldry sinister: In most countries, the driver sits on the left side. 2 leftist, left-wing, progressive, liberal, socialist(ic), pink; radical, communist(ic), red: The party's platform has become a bit too left for my taste. --n. 3 left side or hand or fist, Nautical port, port side, (formerly) larboard: The fort is on the left as you enter the bay. The champion has a powerful left.
leftover n. 1 Usually, leftovers. remainder(s), remnant(s), rest, residue, residuum, balance, surplus, excess, superfluity, overage; scrap(s), leavings, crumbs, odds and ends, debris or dbris, refuse, waste, rubbish, rubble, detritus, Archaic orts: I'm just having leftovers for dinner tonight. --adj. 2 remaining, residual, extra, excess, unused, uneaten: Save some of the leftover ice-cream for later.
legal adj. 1 lawful, licit, statutory, acceptable, permissible, permitted, admissible, authorized: The police officer was found to have exceeded his legal authority. 2 legitimate, proper, right, rightful, sound, constitutional, authorized, Slang legit: I question whether his business is legal. Who is the legal heir? 3 judicial, juridical, judiciary, forensic: The case is without legal precedent.
legend n. 1 epic, saga, myth, story, (folk) tale, romance, narrative, fable, tradition, fiction, Scandinavian Edda: There are scores of legends woven into the cultural fabric of our lives. 2 celebrity, phenomenon, tradition, wonder, luminary, personage, somebody: Someone said that Rudolph had become a legend in his own mind. 3 key, table of symbols, code, explanatory note: Refer to the legend for explanations of symbols used in the map. 4 motto, slogan, inscription, caption, title: The legend reads, 'Dieu et mon droit'.
legible adj. readable, decipherable, clear, understandable, plain, distinct: The handwriting is legible, but I don't know what language it's in.
leisure n. 1 spare or free time, time (off), liberty, freedom, opportunity: How many people these days have the leisure to do what they like? 2 holiday, vacation, respite, relief, rest, recreation, relaxation, ease, breathing-space, quiet, tranquillity, repose, US military rest and recreation, R and R: Everyone needs a few days of leisure now and then. 3 at leisure. a unoccupied, inactive, retired, resting, free, on holiday or chiefly US and Canadian vacation; at liberty, available, unemployed: I have been at leisure for a year now. b Often, at one's leisure. at one's convenience, when convenient, unhurriedly, in one's own time: I shall mow the lawn at my leisure. --adj. 4 recreational: The 'leisure industry' is booming with theme parks opening throughout the country. 5 free, unoccupied, non-working, unencumbered, idle, holiday, vacation: How do you usually spend your leisure time?
lend v. 1 make a loan of, loan, advance: The bank agreed to lend me the money for a boat. 2 impart, furnish, bestow, give, confer, contribute, add: The silk scarf lends cachet to the whole outfit. 3 lend itself to. suit, fit, be fitted or appropriate or suitable (to or for), be applicable or adaptable (to or for): The book lends itself well to film adaptation.
lengthen v. make longer, extend, elongate; stretch, drag out, draw out, prolong, protract, expand, continue: I need to lengthen the skirt an inch. The ten-minute interview lengthened into an hour. They lengthened the playing field.
lenient adj. gentle, kind, kindly, easy, sparing, merciful, tender, humane, tender-hearted, kind-hearted, indulgent, permissive, forgiving, easygoing, tolerant, patient, compassionate, forbearing, understanding, magnanimous, generous, charitable: Do you think they were lenient in their treatment of prisoners caught while escaping?
let v. 1 allow (to), permit (to), sanction (to), give permission or leave (to), authorize (to), license (to), suffer (to): Don't let him go alone. Let George do it. 2 cause (to), arrange for, enable (to): Let me know if you have any difficulty. Let me help you. Let the police know of any crime. 3 Sometimes, let out. rent (out), hire (out), lease (out), charter (out); contract (out), subcontract (out), farm (out), job (out): Mrs Finney lets rooms by the week. Much of the work is let out to people who work at home. 4 let down. disappoint, fail, frustrate; disenchant, dissatisfy, disillusion: He promised to be here at nine, but he let me down. 5 let in. admit, allow in; include, take in, receive, welcome, induct, install or instal: I'll just open a window and let in some fresh air. I wouldn't want to be a member of a club that would let in someone like me. 6 let off. a pardon, forgive, excuse, release, discharge, let go: They let him off with only a severe reprimand. b exonerate, absolve, clear, acquit, vindicate, Slang let off the hook: When the real culprit confessed, she was let off. c detonate, explode, detonate, discharge, fire, set off: Don't let off those fireworks so near the haystack. d emit, give out or off, release, throw off or out, let loose, exude: Some plastics let off an awful smell when they burn. 7 let on. a confess, admit, disclose, divulge, reveal, expose, let it be known, let out, say, tell, give away, let slip, betray; leak: I'll never let on that you are to blame. b feign, affect, pretend, fake, (put on an) act, simulate, dissemble, dissimulate: He let on that he had a bad leg and couldn't play in the match, when in fact he just wanted to go away for the weekend. 8 let out. a See 7 (a), above. b (let) loose, liberate, (set) free, release, let go, discharge: He served three years before being let out. Let the cat out, will you. c emit, give vent to, produce: She let out a scream that could have woken the dead. d end, stop, break up, finish, close, terminate: When does school let out for the Christmas holidays? 9 let up. decrease, abate, ease (up), slacken, diminish, lessen, mitigate, subside, moderate: Perhaps we can still go if the rain lets up soon. 10 let up on. ease up on, slack off on: He didn't let up on haranguing us for an hour.
let-down n. disappointment, disillusionment, disenchantment: She had practised so hard that losing was all the more of a let-down.
lethargic adj. 1 lethargical, sluggish, slow, dull, heavy, lazy, indolent, phlegmatic, slothful, idle, languid, languorous, listless, fainant, inactive, torpid, stuporous, comatose; indifferent, apathetic: They were so lethargic that they did absolutely nothing about it. 2 weary, tired, fagged out, fatigued, enervated, weak, exhausted, drowsy, sleepy, somnolent: I have a bad cold and feel very lethargic.
letter n. 1 character, symbol, sign: Epsilon is a letter in the Greek alphabet. 2 missive, epistle, communication, note, line, message, dispatch or despatch; correspondence: Write me a letter when you get there. 3 letters. literature, the humanities, belles-lettres, the classics; erudition, culture, the world of letters, learning, scholarship: He is a widely known man of letters. 4 to the letter. precisely, literally, exactly, accurately, strictly, sic, thus, letter for letter, literatim, word for word, verbatim: The document has been copied to the letter. --v. 5 inscribe, write, spell (out): She carefully lettered the caption under the picture.
let-up n. cease, stop, stopping, ceasing, cessation, surcease, break, interruption, pause, intermission, suspension, time out or off; moderation, lessening, abatement, diminution, relief, hesitation, respite, relaxation: I was nagged without let-up about getting the work done by the end of the month.
level-headed adj. (well-)balanced, sensible, sane, reasonable, commonsensical, level, unruffled, undisturbed, unperturbed, imperturbable, even-tempered, composed, calm, cool, collected, tranquil, serene, unflappable, poised, relaxed, self-possessed: Even when she was a teenager, Fran was quite level-headed. levity n. light-heartedness, lightness, frivolity, frivolousness, flippancy, trivialization, triviality, facetiousness: Politics is a weighty business and should not be treated with levity.
liable adj. 1 likely, apt, prone, inclined, disposed: She is liable to want payment for her contribution. 2 answerable, responsible, accountable, obligated, blameable, blameworthy, Law actionable: An owner is liable for damage done by his dog. 3 exposed, susceptible, vulnerable, open, subject: Certain kinds of plants are more liable to disease.
liar n. fabricator, prevaricator, perjurer, falsifier, teller of tales, false witness, Ananias, Baron von Mnchhausen, Colloq fibber: He's a liar if he says he saw me that night - I was ill in bed.
liberal adj. 1 generous, bountiful, free, open-hearted, open, open-handed, bounteous, charitable, philanthropic, munificent, magnanimous, big, big-hearted, unstinting, unselfish, unsparing; lavish, abundant, ample, large, handsome, plentiful, copious: Lady Browning is a liberal benefactor of our cause. Thank you for your liberal contributions. 2 progressive, libertarian, reformist, humanistic, left (of centre), latitudinarian, non-partisan, unaligned or non-aligned, individualistic, South African verligte: The liberal voters found little to attract them in the latest election. 3 free, not literal, flexible, lenient, loose, broad, open, disinterested, impartial, dispassionate, fair, broad-minded, open-minded, unprejudiced, unbigoted, unjaundiced, unopinionated, tolerant: Judge Reid is known for his liberal interpretation of the law. --n. 4 progressive, libertarian, reformer, progressivist, latitudinarian, independent, freethinker, leftist, left-winger, South African verligte: They think of themselves as liberals, not as conservatives.
liberate v. 1 (set) free, release, set at liberty, disenthral, emancipate, manumit, deliver, enfranchise, (let) loose, let go, let out, let off: When the enemy retreated, the army liberated the prisoners of war. After her divorce, she felt like a liberated woman. 2 steal, pilfer, purloin, take, appropriate: She was caught liberating some books from the library.
libertine n. 1 lecher, reprobate, profligate, rake, rakehell, rou, debaucher, womanizer, seducer, fornicator, adulterer, debauchee, whoremonger, philanderer, Don Juan, Lothario, Casanova, Colloq wolf, lady-killer, (old) goat, dirty old man: He fancied himself a libertine, but women shunned him like the plague. --adj. 2 licentious, lecherous, reprobate, profligate, rakish, rakehell, philandering, dissolute, immoral, degenerate, depraved, debauched, decadent, dirty, filthy, amoral, wanton, lewd, lascivious, prurient, lubricious or lubricous, salacious, Paphian, libidinous, ruttish, goatish, hircine, satyric(al), carnal, bestial, Colloq randy, Slang horny: A paragon of prudery to his family, Viscount Guarnier secretly led a life of wild, libertine abandon.
licence n. 1 leave, permission, liberty, authorization, authority, entitlement, dispensation, right, carte blanche, freedom, latitude, free choice, privilege, charter: Merely being eighteen does not give you licence to do exactly as you please. 2 permit, certificate, credential(s), paper(s): Bring along your driving licence. 3 disregard, deviation, departure, nonconformity, non-compliance, divergence: Such grammatical abnormalities are an exercise of poetic licence.
lie v. 1 prevaricate, fabricate, misrepresent, invent, commit perjury, perjure or forswear oneself, Colloq fib: If he says that I ate the last cake, he's lying. --n. 2 falsehood, untruth, falsification, misrepresentation, fiction, invention, prevarication, fib, fabrication, Colloq story, cock-and-bull story, (tall) tale, whopper, US fish story, fish tale: His claim of having been attacked was found to be a lie.
life n. 1 existence, entity, being; sentience, viability: Who can imagine the possible forms of life in the universe? 2 existence, survival, living, subsistence, sustenance: Certain nutriments are necessary to life on earth. 3 existence, living, way of life, lifestyle: What kind of life does he lead? I enjoy country life. 4 existence, lifetime, time; duration: She did much during her short life. The life of a light-bulb depends on how often it is switched off and on. 5 person, mortal, human (being), individual, soul: The new drug might save millions of lives. 6 biography, autobiography, memoir(s), (life) story: He has written a life of Mozart. 7 soul, spirit, spark of life, vital spark, moving spirit, life-force, lan vital; lifeblood; animation, vitality, liveliness, sprightliness, vivacity, sparkle, dazzle, dash, lan, vigour, verve, zest, flavour, pungency, freshness, effervescence, brio, flair, vim, energy, exuberance, enthusiasm, Colloq pep, zing, get-up-and-go: We must breathe some life into these people. Eva is always the life of the party. 8 obsession, preoccupation, passion, fixation, compulsion: Model railways are his life. 9 bounce, resilience, spring, elasticity: There's no life in this old tennis ball.
lifelike adj. authentic, realistic, natural, true to life, real, faithful, graphic, vivid: She painted a very lifelike picture of her cat.
light n. 1 illumination, brightness, daylight, lamplight, candlelight, firelight, gaslight, torchlight, starlight, moonlight, sunlight; gegenschein, counterglow: There is just enough light for me to read the label. 2 lamp, light-bulb, torch, beacon, lantern, candle, flare, headlight or headlamp, street-light or street lamp, US and Canadian flashlight: I saw a light in the distance. Someone turned off the lights. 3 radiance, radiation, luminescence, glare, gleam, glow, reflection, luminosity, shine, sparkle, scintillation, incandescence, phosphorescence, fluorescence: The light of the full moon shone through the window. 4 daybreak, dawn, sunrise, US sun-up: We leave at first light. 5 clarification, enlightenment, insight, understanding, elucidation, simplification, explanation: After an hour's talk with his lawyer, he finally saw the light and confessed. Can you shed a little light on this problem, Robyn? 6 window, window-pane: The west wall has three windows of six lights each. 7 match, lighter, spill, taper, fire, flame, ignition: Can you give me a light for my cigarette? 8 highlight: Note the chiaroscuro effect from the lights and shadows in the drawing. 9 bring to light. reveal, unearth, find, uncover, unveil, discover, expose, disclose, make known: A vital fact has recently been brought to light. 10 come to light. be revealed, be unearthed, be uncovered, be unveiled, be discovered, be exposed, be disclosed, appear, come out, turn up, transpire, develop, evolve, emerge: The truth about her parents has finally come to light. 11 Brit in the light of or US in light of. considering, in view of, in consideration of, taking into account, keeping or bearing in mind: In the light of his condition, he has decided to pull out of the competition. 12 shed or throw (some, a little) light on. explain, elucidate, simplify, clarify: Perhaps you could throw some light on the reason why she refuses to leave the house. --adj. 13 (well-)illuminated, bright, alight, (well-)lit, (well-)lighted, shining, luminous, effulgent, brilliant, beaming, incandescent, phosphorescent, fluorescent: The lightest room in the house is the kitchen. 14 pale, light-hued: Put the light blue chair over here. --v. 15 ignite, set alight, set or put a match to, kindle; burn, touch off, set fire to, fire: It's getting chilly, so you'd better light the fire. When the bomb was in place, they lit the fuse. 16 illuminate, light up, lighten, brighten: Take this candle to light your way to the bedroom. 17 turn on, switch on, put on: Light the lamps. 18 light up. lighten, brighten, cheer up, liven up: The moment she walked in, the whole room lit up. Her face lit up when she saw him.
lighten v. 1 illuminate, brighten, light up: Opening the curtains would lighten up the room. 2 cheer (up), brighten, gladden, shine; smile: Her face lightened when he said he would be home for the holidays.
like adj. 1 similar (to), akin (to), allied (to), parallel (to or with), comparable (to or with), equivalent (to), equal (to), identical (to), cognate (with), analogous (to), corresponding (to), correspondent (to), close (to), homologous (to or with), of a piece (with), (much) the same (as), along the same lines (as), not unlike: We hold like opinions. Her opinions are like mine. Her pies are like the ones my mother used to bake. Problems like this give me a headache. Opposite charges attract, like charges repel. 2 in the mood for, disposed to: Do you feel like a walk in the park? He felt like going with me. --adv. 3 as if, as though: He ran like mad. --prep. 4 similar to, identical to or with: Her daughter looks like her. He makes her feel like a perfect fool. 5 in the same way as, in the manner of, similarly to: Sometimes she acts like a maniac. The jacket fits him like a glove. He laughed like a drain. He treats his mother like a child. 6 such as, for example, for instance, eg, that is (to say), ie, in other words, namely, to wit, viz: Mistletoe grows on various trees, like oaks and birches. --n. 7 match, equal, peer, fellow, opposite number, counterpart, twin: It is doubtful that we shall see his like again. 8 same or similar kind or sort or ilk or type or kidney or breed or mould or cast or strain: The book deals with music, literature, theatre, painting, and the like.
likeable adj. likeable, genial, amiable, congenial, pleasant, simpatico, agreeable, pleasing, attractive, appealing, nice, friendly, winning, charming, engaging, good-natured, winsome: He is likeable enough, but not my ideal son-in-law.
likely adj. 1 probable, liable, expected: Three o'clock is the likely arrival time. 2 probable, conceivable, reasonable, credible, plausible, tenable: It seemed likely that Holmes would solve the case. 3 fitting, able, suitable, probable, seemly, meet, right, proper, qualified, acceptable, appropriate, apposite; favourite, odds-on, favoured, promising: Peters is the likely man for the job. 4 disposed to, apt to, inclined to, liable to: It's likely to rain. You're likely to think me mad, but I have my reasons for going. --adv. 5 probably, undoubtedly, indubitably, no doubt, in all probability, Colloq like as not: You would most likely say that I am wrong. He will very likely win the election.
likeness n. 1 similarity, resemblance, correspondence, analogy, agreement, parallelism: The artist has caught her likeness in the second painting. 2 copy, replica, facsimile, duplicate, reproduction, model, representation, portrait, painting, picture, drawing, photograph, sculpture,statue, statuette, image, simulacrum, icon or ikon: He sells miniature likenesses of the Eiffel Tower to tourists. 3 appearance, face, figure, image: The premier's likeness appears on posters throughout the country.
liking n. 1 affinity, fondness, affection, love, partiality, bias, preference, bent, predilection, predisposition, inclination, appreciation, penchant; eye, appetite, soft spot, weakness: He has a liking for good claret and beautiful women. 2 taste, pleasure, fancy, preference: The chef will prepare the steak to your liking.
limit n. 1 Sometimes, limits. extent, bound(s), end, limitation, check, curb, restriction, restraint: Is there no limit to how far you will go to get your own way? 2 Often, limits. border, edge, end, extent, boundary, bound(s), (boundary or border or partition) line, frontier, perimeter, periphery: That row of poplars marks the limit of the property to the east. 3 Often, limits. area, territory, confines, zone, region, quarter, district, precinct(s): Stay outside the three-mile limit. We have jurisdiction only within city limits. 4 the limit. a the end, the last straw, the straw that broke the camel's back, all (that) one can take, enough, too much, Colloq it: Your presumption is the absolute limit - you can't seriously expect me to lend you money. b outrage, joke, surprise, Colloq caution: Wasn't Nigel the limit in that hat!? --v. 5 check, curb, bridle, restrict, restrain, hold in check: We must limit spending on arms. The shackles limited my movements. 6 restrict, confine, delimit, narrow, focus, guide, channel: Please limit your questions to the subject at hand. 7 set, define, determine, fix: The bank manager has limited my overdraft to half what it was.
limitless adj. unrestricted, unrestrained, unconfined, unbounded, boundless, extensive, vast, immense, enormous, unlimited, illimitable; interminable, unceasing, incessant, undefined, immeasurable, innumerable, numberless, countless, myriad, unending, perpetual, everlasting, eternal: Dickens possessed a seemingly limitless capacity for characterization. In the depths of space exist limitless numbers of stars. God's love is limitless.
limp adj. 1 flaccid, flabby, lax, slack, soft, drooping, relaxed, unstarched, unstiffened, soft, flexible, pliable, floppy, loose: The banners hung limp in the still, sultry air. 2 exhausted, tired, fatigued, worn out, spent, enervated, wasted, debilitated, weak, feeble, frail: He felt limp with exhaustion after the day's hiking. 3 weak, feeble, ineffective, ineffectual, flimsy, half-hearted, lukewarm, spineless, thewless, namby-pamby, Colloq wishy-washy Slang gutless: Having to visit her grandmother seemed a pretty limp excuse to me.
line v. 1 interline, cover, face; ceil: The coat is lined with fur. 2 line one's pockets. accept bribes, graft, US sell out, Colloq US be on the take: He was secretly lining his pockets during his years on the council.
linen n. Often, linens. bedclothes, bed linen(s), sheets and pillowcases; table linen(s), napery, tablecloths and napkins; bath linen(s), towels and wash-cloths: The soiled linen is sent to the laundry.
lingering adj. 1 long, persistent, protracted, remaining: I was left with the lingering feeling that I had forgotten to tell her something. 2 slow, long-drawn-out, gradual: She died a lingering, painful death.
link n. 1 tie, bond, coupling, connector, vinculum; element, constituent, component: A chain is no stronger than its weakest link. 2 connection, tie-up, tie-in, relation, relationship, association, affiliation, interdependence: What is the link between her arrival and his sudden departure? He thinks he's identified the missing link. --v. 3 Often, link up. couple, join, fasten (together), unite; concatenate: They linked arms to form a barrier. 4 connect, tie (up or in or together), associate, relate, identify with: I cannot help feeling that this murder links up with the others.
liquor n. 1 spirits, alcohol, (strong) drink, intoxicants, John Barleycorn, schnapps, whisky or US and Irish whiskey, demon rum, moonshine, US white lightning, white mule; Colloq booze, pick-me-up, hard stuff, fire-water, juice, mother's ruin (= 'gin'), US Kickapoo mountain joy juice; Slang rot-gut, Chiefly US and Canadian hooch or hootch, US sauce, red-eye, mountain dew: I don't drink liquor, but I will have some tea. 2 liquid, fluid, extract, broth, stock, distillate, concentrate, infusion: After poaching the fish, pour off the liquor and save it.
list v. 1 lean (over), tilt, slant, heel (over), tip, careen, cant, incline: The ship suddenly listed to starboard and I was thrown onto the deck. --n. 2 lean, tilt, slant, heel, tip, cant, slope, inclination: The leak caused a severe list to port.
listless adj. sluggish, lethargic, weary, weak, enervated, spent, languid, lifeless, heavy, phlegmatic, unemotional, impassive; unenthusiastic, indifferent, apathetic, unconcerned, lukewarm, tepid, cool, uncaring, insouciant; pococurante, Laodicean: She was just over an illness and feeling quite listless.
literal adj. 1 word-for-word, verbatim, line-for-line, letter-for-letter, literatim, exact, precise, faithful, strict: In a literal translation the spirit of the original is often lost. 2 denotative, etymological, semantic, dictionary, lexical, basic, essential, pure, simple, simplistic, real, objective, true, genuine, bona fide, unvarnished, unadulterated, unembellished, simple-minded, uncomplicated, unbiased, unprejudiced, Colloq honest-to-goodness, honest-to-God: 'Female parent' may be the literal definition of mother, but it doesn't convey the emotional and connotative senses of the word. 3 prosaic, matter-of-fact, colourless, dull, down-to-earth, literal-minded, unimaginative, humdrum, boring, tedious: His literal approach to everything spoils the conversation for those who have any spirit.
literary adj. 1 erudite, well-read, cultured, learned, bookish, scholarly, lettered, cultivated, refined, educated; literate: Her latest book has been scorned by the literary lite. 2 written, formal, scholarly, pedantic, learned, academic, scholastic, school-marmish: His writing contains literary words rarely heard in ordinary conversation.
litigant n. litigator, party, plaintiff, appellant, suitor, petitioner, suer, defendant, appellee, accused: The judge suggested that the litigants settle out of court.
litter n. 1 rubbish, debris, refuse, fragments, odds and ends, US and Canadian trash, Colloq junk: The room was strewn with food wrappers, cigarette butts, and other litter. 2 brood, issue, offspring, young: Note the differences in the young of the same litter. 3 stretcher, palanquin or palankeen, sedan chair: The potentate was borne in on a litter carried by four huge Nubians. --v. 4 clutter, strew, scatter: The streets were littered with bricks and broken glass.
live adj. 1 living, breathing, animate, viable, existent; material, physical, tangible, real, actual, palpable: She said she'd rather be a live beggar than a dead countess. My cat brought me a live mouse into the house the other day. 2 energetic, lively, spirited, vigorous, active, dynamic, busy; current, contemporary: Our new advertising agency seems to have some live ideas. The other party made nuclear disarmament a live issue in the election. 3 burning, glowing, flaming, alight, red-hot, white-hot: A live coal popped out of the grate onto the carpet. 4 loaded, explosive, unexploded, combustible: Builders have dug up a live bomb in London. 5 charged, electrified: Don't touch a live wire or you'll get a shock. --v. 6 breathe, exist; function: There has never lived a more gifted scholar. She lives as a recluse. 7 survive, persist, last, persevere, endure; spend, continue, live out, complete, end, conclude, finish: He lived out his days happily in Torquay. 8 reside, dwell, be; abide, stay, remain, lodge, room: He normally lives in Acton, but at the moment he's living with his mother in Kent. 9 subsist, get along, survive, fare: Many old-age pensioners complain that they have barely enough to live on.
liven v. Often, liven up. 1 brighten, cheer, enliven, perk up: You need some fresh paint to liven up the outside of the house. 2 invigorate, stimulate, energize, inspirit, activate, animate, fire, stir (up), put (some) life into, enliven, perk up, Colloq pep up: We need a good dance band to liven up the place in the evenings.
loaded adj. 1 overloaded, overwhelmed, burdened, laden, weighted (down), filled (up), chock-full, chock-a-block, stuffed, jammed, packed, crowded, brimming, brim-full, crammed: A fully loaded lorry has overturned near exit 5. The train was loaded with commuters. 2 charged, primed, ready: Be careful - the gun is loaded. 3 charged, tricky, manipulative, insidious, prejudiced, prejudicial, trap, devious: 'When did you stop beating your wife?' is what anybody would call a loaded question. 4 rich, wealthy, affluent, moneyed, well-to-do, well off, Colloq flush, well-heeled , US in the chips, Slang rolling in it: I hear that her new husband is really loaded. 5 drunk: He was loaded before he even went to the party.
loaf v. 1 lounge (about or around), loiter, idle, laze, lie about or around, take it easy, vegetate, watch the grass grow, Colloq US lallygag or lollygag, Slang Brit skive, Military scrimshank, US goof off, US military gold-brick, Taboo slang US fuck off, fuck the dog: There are always some youngsters loafing about in the park. 2 loaf away. waste, fritter away, idle away: He loafs away all his time watching the telly.
loan n. 1 advance, allowance, credit, accommodation: We needed a loan to pay for Melissa's education. --v. 2 lend, advance, allow, credit: The bank loaned us enough money to buy a car.
loathe v. detest, hate, despise, abhor, abominate, execrate, shrink or recoil from, shudder at: I love broccoli but loathe cauliflower.
loathsome adj. detestable, abhorrent, odious, hateful, disgusting, execrable, abominable, despicable, contemptible, noisome, offensive, horrible, repulsive, repugnant, nauseating, sickening, revolting, nasty, vile: Without warning, the loathsome beast attacked me. She died shortly of a loathsome disease.
lobby n. 1 foyer, entrance-hall, vestibule, entry, US entry-way; reception (room or area), waiting-room, corridor, hall, hallway: We were to meet in the main lobby of the arts centre. 2 special-interest group, pressure group, lobbyist: A powerful lobby has been formed to influence farming legislation. --v. 3 (bring) pressure (to bear), (exert) influence, persuade, pull strings or wires, put one's weight behind, sway, press, push, promote, urge, Brit pressurize: Environmentalists are lobbying for a ban on fluorocarbons.
locale n. site, location, spot, place, setting, venue, neighbourhood, situation, locality: We moved the locale of the film to Spain.
location n. 1 site, place, locale, spot, setting, situation, position: We have just moved to a new location. 2 finding, discovery, laying or putting or getting one's hand(s) or finger(s) on, unearthing, turning up, tracking down: The location of the other half of the coin became an obsession with him.
lock n. tress, curl, ringlet: As a love token, she sent him a lock of her hair.
lodging n. Often, lodgings. accommodation(s), shelter, quarters, rooms, apartment, housing, house, dwelling, dwelling-place, residence: I found a night's lodging in Cranberry Street.
logic n. 1 reasoning, deduction, dialectics, ratiocination, inferential or scientific reasoning: Mill defined logic as the science of proof, or evidence. 2 (good or common) sense, sound judgement, wisdom, presence of mind: According to Disraeli, England was not governed by logic. 3 reasonableness, intelligence, judiciousness, practicality, rationality: Your logic is valid, but you are forgetting the human factor.
lonely adj. 1 single, solitary, sole, lone, one; unaccompanied, alone: The lonely survivor of the crash struggled out of the jungle. She walked for miles, lonely and desolate. 2 desolate, uninhabited, deserted, barren: Robinson Crusoe's world was a lonely place. 3 friendless, lonesome, abandoned, outcast, forsaken; solo, hermit-like, eremitic(al), reclusive, secluded, retiring, withdrawn, unsocial: He felt lonely in the strange city. She leads a lonely existence with only her cat for company.
long adj. 1 extensive, extended, elongate(d), large, great, big: That is a very long snake! 2 lengthy, prolonged, protracted; extensive, extended, sustained: I waited for a long time.
longing n. craving, wish, yearning, hunger, fancy, desire, hankering, Colloq yen: I have a longing to be home again.
look-alike n. twin, double, exact or perfect likeness or match, clone, Colloq spitting image or spit and image; doppelgnger; Slang (dead) ringer: She is such a perfect look-alike of Princess Di's that people follow her in the street.
loom v. 1 appear, emerge, take shape or form, materialize, surface, arise: A huge figure loomed out of the fog. 2 menace, impend, threaten, overshadow, tower, dominate, hang or hover over: Count Dracula's dark castle loomed over us. 3 loom large. dominate, predominate, play a big or an important role or part: Sales to children loom large in your predictions.
loophole n. outlet, way out, means of escape, escape, subterfuge, pretext, evasion, quibble, Colloq dodge: They couldn't prosecute him because he found a loophole in the law.
loosen v. 1 loose; undo, unfasten, unhook, unbutton, unlace, untie, unbind, unbuckle; unscrew: Quick! Loosen his collar! 2 weaken, detach, separate, sever, break or cut (apart): The vibration has loosened the rivets.
lop v. Often, lop off. chop off, trim, top, head, crop, prune, dock, clip, trim, snip off, shear off, cut off, pare, shorten, hack off, amputate: Lop the lower branches off close to the trunk.
lord n. 1 master, monarch, ruler, sovereign: Harry considers himself lord of all he surveys. 2 noble, nobleman, peer, aristocrat; earl, duke, count, viscount, baron: He was made a lord in recognition of his achievements. 3 The or Our Lord. God, the Almighty, God Almighty, the Creator, the Supreme Being, Christ, Jesus, Jehovah: The Lord moves in mysterious ways his miracles to perform. --v. lord it over. domineer, swagger, be overbearing, Colloq boss (around), act big, pull rank: He lords it over everyone in the office.
lose v. 1 mislay, misplace, displace, part with; suffer the loss of, be deprived of: I lost my pen. He lost a leg in the war. 2 forfeit, yield: He says he lost the rent money gambling. 3 give up, yield, capitulate, admit defeat, succumb, bow to, be defeated or conquered, suffer defeat, be beaten or overcome or worsted or bested, Colloq lose out: It was a good game, but we lost. 4 waste, let slip, squander, dissipate, fritter or trifle away, run out of; consume, use (up), expend, spend: We lost a lot of time waiting for him to decide. 5 elude, evade, escape, throw or shake off, give the slip: I managed to lose the sinister-looking man who was shadowing me.
loss n. 1 deprivation, bereavement, privation, denial, sacrifice, forfeiture, disappearance: We must be constantly vigilant to watch for any loss of our liberty. 2 diminution, erosion, reduction, impoverishment, depletion, shrinkage: New policies are in place to stem the loss of parkland. 3 disadvantage, detriment, harm, impairment, injury, damage: I don't regard Wentworth's resignation as any great loss. 4 waste, wastage, wasting, squandering: The loss of time was owing to a train delay. 5 defeat, set-back, disadvantage, disappointment, failure, downfall, collapse, breakdown, ruin; drubbing, trouncing: His loss is my gain. 6 Often, losses. debit(s), liability (liabilities), negative cash flow: The company wrote off the losses. 7 Often, losses. death, dying, passing, demise, destruction, extermination, extinction, annihilation: The loss from disease was overwhelming. What losses did they suffer in the battle?
lot n. 1 collection, batch, consignment, assortment, group, portion, set, quantity, grouping, apportionment: They are expecting a new lot of furniture this afternoon. 2 luck, fortune, destiny, fate, kismet, plight, doom, end: It seems to be my lot to stay in the same place all my life. 3 lottery, drawing, raffle, drawing lots or straws: The winner will be decided by lot. 4 share, portion, division, interest, part, allotment, assignment, apportionment, ration, allowance: Marguerite was bequeathed the house, while my lot included the paintings. 5 a lot or lots. a a good or great deal: You have a lot of nerve! I'd give a lot to be able to paint like you. He got into a lot of trouble. b much, loads or a load, mountains or a mountain, tons or a ton, barrels or a barrel, stacks or a stack, piles or a pile, heaps or a heap, masses or a mass, oceans , Colloq oodles, scads, US gobs: She has lots of money. c many, myriad, numerous, countless, reams, infinite or an infinity, quantities or a quantity, enormous numbers or an enormous number, Colloq oodles, scads, loads, tons, masses,: There are lots of fish in the sea. 6 the lot. everything, Colloq the whole kit and caboodle, all: I'll give you a fiver for the lot.
lottery n. raffle, sweepstake, drawing, pool, Brit tombola: I've never known anyone who won anything in the national lottery.
lounge v. 1 idle, loaf, laze, loll, languish, vegetate: After dinner, we lounged till midnight, sipping port. --n. 2 sitting-room, salon, front room, parlour: Mother insisted that we entertain visitors in the lounge. 3 lobby, foyer, waiting-room, reception (room), vestibule: I was waiting in the lounge when the doctor returned. 4 cocktail lounge, (lounge or saloon) bar: We went into the lounge and ordered a drink. 5 sofa, couch, divan, studio couch, day-bed, settee, settle, love-seat, chaise longue; causeuse, tte--tte; US and Canadian Davenport: The psychoanalyst has a lounge on which you lie while talking to him.
lousy adj. 1 awful, terrible, mean, contemptible, low, base, hateful, detestable, despicable, vile, wretched, miserable, scurvy, dirty, vicious, Colloq rotten: Telling tales to the teacher was a lousy thing to do. 2 bad, poor, awful, terrible, inferior; low-quality, shoddy, shabby, inferior, miserable, second-rate, wretched: We had lousy seats for the theatre last week. The dealer seems to have sold you a really lousy car. 3 pedicular, pediculous, Brit lice-infested, lice-ridden, US louse-infested, louse-ridden: Even lice are lousy - they have their own parasites. 4 lousy with. alive with, overloaded with, swarming with, teeming with, Colloq crawling with, knee-deep in: In five minutes the place was lousy with cops.
love n. 1 warmth, affection, attachment, fondness, tenderness, devotion, attraction, friendship, amity, regard, admiration, fancy, adoration, adulation, ardour, passion, fervour, rapture, infatuation: Her love for him grew over the years. 2 liking, delight, enjoyment, pleasure, fondness, attraction, predilection, bent, leaning, proclivity, inclination, disposition, weakness, partiality, preference, taste, relish, passion: In his retirement, Charles has developed a love for golf. 3 darling, beloved, sweetheart, sweetie, sweet, honey, dear one, dearest, angel, turtle-dove, true-love, light of one's life, lover, paramour, mate, intended, betrothed; girlfriend, inamorata, lady-love, young lady, fiance; boyfriend, beau, inamorato, suitor, swain, young man, fianc, Archaic leman, tally, US POSSLQ (= 'Person of the Opposite Sex Sharing Living Quarters'), Colloq girl, woman, guy, man: Let me tell you something, my love. Come live with me and be my love. 4 sympathy, tenderness, concern, charity, care, solicitude, affinity, rapport, harmony, brotherhood, sisterhood, fellow-feeling: He has great love for his fellow human beings. 5 love affair. a amour, liaison, affair, romance, relationship, affaire de coeur, intrigue: He's been having a love affair with his secretary. b passion, mania, Colloq thing: George allows nothing to interfere with his love affair with tennis. 6 make love (to) or (with). embrace, cuddle, caress, fondle, have sexual intercourse, Archaic take, know, Colloq neck, pet, canoodle, romance, have sex, make the beast with two backs, US and Canadian make out; Taboo slang screw, fuck, hump, bang, Brit roger, bonk: He still makes love to his wife even though they are both in their eighties. --v. 7 cherish, admire, adore, be in love with, lose one's heart to, worship, idolize, dote on, treasure, be infatuated with, think the world of, adulate, hold dear, like, Colloq be hung up on, be crazy or nuts or wild or mad about, have a crush on: Only after ten years of friendship did she discover that she loved him. 8 delight in, take pleasure in, derive pleasure or enjoyment from, relish, be partial to, have a passion or preference or taste for, be attracted to, be captivated by, be fond of, like, enjoy, appreciate, value, Colloq get a kick from or out of, be wild about, be thrilled by, US get a bang or charge from or out of: She loves chocolates. I just love your new dress! Love me, love my dog.
lovely adj. 1 good-looking, pretty, handsome, attractive, comely, fair, fetching, engaging, captivating, alluring, enticing, bewitching, ravishing, gorgeous, beautiful, beauteous, pulchritudinous: Larry has two lovely daughters. The house has a lovely view of Lake Windermere. 2 satisfying, satisfactory, agreeable, enjoyable, gratifying, nice, pleasing, pleasant, pleasurable, engaging, delightful: What a lovely way to spend an evening! lover n. See love, 3, above.
low v. moo, bellow; bawl: The lowing herd moved slowly into the pasture.
lower v. 1 drop, reduce, decrease, mark down, discount, lessen, diminish, downgrade, cut, slash: Prices on all goods have been lowered. 2 let or move or bring or put down, drop: The drawbridge was lowered and the knights rode across. They lowered the coffin into the grave. 3 cut or lop off, cut or take down, reduce, diminish, crop, trim: We lowered the hedge by a foot. 4 abase, debase, degrade, discredit, shame, disgrace, demean, belittle, humble, humiliate; stoop, deign, condescend: I wouldn't lower myself to so much as speak to him. 5 turn down, quieten, moderate, modulate, soften, tone down: He lowered his voice to a whisper. --adj. 6 further or farther down: My mother has a flat on a lower floor of the building. 7 earlier: These primitive amphibians are from the Lower Carboniferous. 8 lower case. small, minuscule: Use capitals for the first letters and lower case for the rest in these names. lower v. See lour, above.
loyal adj. faithful, true, dependable, devoted, trustworthy, trusty, steady, steadfast, staunch, trusted, reliable, stable, unswerving, unwavering, dedicated, constant, patriotic: Give me twelve men loyal and true and we shall rout the enemy.
luck n. 1 fortune, chance, destiny, fate, accident, fortuity, serendipity; fluke, stroke of luck, US happenstance: Luck brought us together. 2 good fortune, (good) break: It takes a lot of luck to get the kinds of roles you want as an actor. 3 chance(s), success rate, fortune(s): I hope that my luck improves soon.
ludicrous adj. ridiculous, laughable, absurd, farcical, nonsensical, preposterous, incongruous, asinine, foolish, silly, zany, crazy, comical, risible; funny, facetious, droll, waggish, jocular, witty, jocose: The explanations of the new tax laws have been carried to ludicrous extremes. You can count on Billy to come up with some ludicrous prank on April Fools' Day.
luggage n. baggage, bags, gear, impedimenta, paraphernalia, things, belongings: When I arrived in Torremolinos, I found my luggage was missing.
lull n. 1 pause, respite, interlude, intermission, interval, break, hiatus, interruption, stop, halt, lapse, delay, Literary caesura, Colloq let-up: After a brief lull, the hurricane resumed in all its ferocity. 2 quiet, quiescence, hush, calm, calmness, stillness, silence, peace, peacefulness, tranquillity: There was a lull, then the noise of the artillery again shattered the night. --v. 3 soothe, calm, quiet, hush, pacify, mollify, tranquillize: Do not let her sweet words lull you into a sense of false security. I was lulled to sleep by the crickets and the bees.
luminous adj. 1 shiny, shining, bright, brilliant, lighted (up), lit (up), illuminated, radiant, alight, resplendent, lustrous, gleaming, shimmering, glistening, sparkling, dazzling, refulgent, effulgent: The moon shone with a luminous beauty. 2 glowing, aglow, luminescent, incandescent, phosphorescent, fluorescent: He had a watch with luminous hands. 3 clear, lucid, perspicuous, percipient, perspicacious, penetrating, discerning, perceptive, clear-eyed, clear-headed, keen, acute, sharp, explicit, incisive, specific, express; understandable, intelligible: His latest novel provides another example of his luminous style.
lump v. Usually, lump it. allow, tolerate, suffer, put up with, bear, stand, brook, endure: I'm afraid you'll just have to lump it, whether you like it or not.
lunacy n. 1 madness, insanity, dementia, craziness, derangement, psychosis, mania: Formerly, it was believed that lunacy fluctuated in accordance with the phases of the moon. 2 folly, foolishness, bad or poor judgement, illogicality, illogic, senselessness, ridiculousness, irrationality, foolhardiness, stupidity: It would be sheer lunacy to confess to something you did not do.
lurch n. leave in the lurch. desert, abandon, forsake; drop, jilt: He left her in the lurch, waiting at the church.
lure v. 1 tempt, attract, induce, coax, inveigle, seduce, draw in, entice, lead on, decoy, charm, persuade, allure, catch: She lured me into the trap of believing that she loved me. --n. 2 bait, decoy, attraction, temptation, inducement, magnet, siren song, charm, US drawing card, Slang come-on: Too many nave people fall for the lure of easy money.
lurk v. skulk, slink, prowl, steal, sneak, hide, (lie in) wait, lie low: The muggers were lurking in the shadows, waiting for a victim.
lush adj. 1 luxuriant, thick, lavish, flourishing, verdant, green, dense, overgrown, thick, exuberant: The walls were covered with a lush growth of ivy. 2 juicy, succulent, mouth-watering, fresh, moist, ripe: We ate lush pears that we picked straight from the tree. 3 palatial, extravagant, elaborate, luxurious, opulent, sumptuous, Colloq ritzy, plush: The bridal suite is the lushest accommodation they offer.
lustful adj. libidinous, carnal, concupiscent, licentious, lewd, prurient, lascivious, salacious, Colloq horny, randy: On her way to work she was forced to endure daily the lustful calls of the construction workers.
lustrous adj. glossy, shiny, shined, polished, burnished: French polishing gives the furniture a lustrous finish.
luxuriant adj. 1 abundant, profuse, copious, lush, rich, bounteous, overflowing, full, luxurious: Her luxuriant hair hung down to her waist. 2 lavish, full, rank, prolific, thriving, rife, exuberant, lush, abounding, plenteous, abundant, superabundant, dense, fruitful, teeming: The luxuriant orange groves are yielding a bumper crop this year. 3 ornate, elaborate, decorated, fancy, rococo, baroque, flowery, frilly, florid, overdone, flamboyant, showy, ostentatious, gaudy, garish, Colloq flashy: The elders disapproved of the luxuriant ornamentation of the churches.
luxurious adj. 1 opulent, sumptuous, grand, extravagant, lavish, magnificent, splendid, de luxe, fancy; epicurean, gourmet; Colloq swanky, swank, ritzy, plush, posh: We had a luxurious room overlooking the sea and ate the most luxurious meals. 2 self-indulgent, voluptuous, voluptuary, sybaritic, hedonistic, pampered: We lived a truly luxurious life for two years till the money ran out.
lying n. 1 prevarication, fibbing, mendacity, mendaciousness, falsification, untruthfulness, perjury; dishonesty, deceit, duplicity: She was accused of lying while under oath. --adj. 2 untruthful, false, mendacious, hypocritical, dishonest, deceitful, deceptive, duplicitous, treacherous, perfidious: Whoever told you they had found the solution is a lying scoundrel.
lyrical adj. 1 See lyric, 1, above. 2 enthusiastic, ecstatic, encomiastic, rapturous, rhapsodic, effusive, impassioned, emotional, ebullient, exuberant, panegyrical: He waxed lyrical whenever he spoke of his children.
machiavellian adj. deceitful, cunning, shrewd, crafty, wily, foxy, scheming, tricky, perfidious, nefarious, treacherous, sneaky: Mr Williams has concocted a truly machiavellian plan for getting the pensioners to move out.
machine n. 1 mechanism, device, apparatus, contrivance, appliance, instrument, implement, tool, utensil, gadget, Colloq contraption, US gismo or gizmo: What kind of machine is used to make a corkscrew? 2 engine, motor, prime mover, vehicle; car, automobile, motor car, US auto: We used to get into the machine and go for Sunday picnics. 3 organization, system, ring, gang, cabal, clique, party, faction: The entire council is run by a political machine. --v. 4 shape, make, manufacture: In this department we machine the castings to a tolerance of one ten-thousandth of an inch.
macho adj. manly, masculine, virile, proud, arrogant: He's afraid his macho image will be destroyed if he admits to enjoying ballet.
madden v. 1 infuriate, anger, enrage, incense, provoke, inflame, excite (someone) to (a) frenzy or rage, make (someone's) blood boil, raise (someone's) hackles, make (someone) see red, get (someone's) back up, drive someone crazy, Literary raise (someone's) ire, Colloq drive (someone) up the wall, Brit drive (someone) round the bend or twist, US tick (someone) off, burn (someone) up, tee (someone) off, bug, drive (someone) up the wall: Their getting away with something like that maddened us all. 2 irk, vex, pique, exasperate, irritate: He has the maddening habit of affecting a lisp. 3 bait, badger, torment, plague, bedevil, US rile, hassle: The dog was maddened into attacking anything that moved.
madman n. madwoman; lunatic, psychopath, psychotic, maniac, Colloq crackpot, psycho, loony, screwball, US kook, Slang nut, nutcase, Brit nutter: I am working like a madman to finish the book by the deadline.
magazine n. 1 periodical, journal, publication: We publish a quarterly magazine about language. 2 arsenal, ammunition or munitions dump, armoury: Saboteurs infiltrated the camp and blew up the magazine.
magician n. 1 conjuror or conjurer, illusionist, wizard, sorcerer, sorceress, magus, necromancer, enchanter, enchantress, Merlin, Houdini, Circe, witch, warlock; thaumaturge, theurgist: The court magician changed the pebbles into precious stones by a wave of his wand. 2 marvel, miracle-worker, virtuoso, wizard, genius, master, Colloq whiz: Mary Lou Williams is a magician on the boogie-woogie piano.
magnetism n. attraction, draw, appeal, allure, magic, lure, attractiveness, charm, pull, seductiveness, irresistibility, drawing power, charisma, duende, likeableness, sex appeal: JFK's personal magnetism won him millions of votes.
magnificent adj. great, excellent, splendid, superior, superb, marvellous, glorious, grand, fine, impressive, imposing, awe-inspiring, impressive, brilliant, commanding, august, noble, majestic, regal, distinguished, elegant, exalted, sublime, outstanding; sumptuous, resplendent, opulent, rich, luxurious, lavish: She lives in a magnificent country house.
magnitude n. 1 greatness, size, extent, bigness, immensity, enormousness, dimensions: You cannot imagine the magnitude of the unemployment problem in our area. 2 importance, significance, consequence, note: This is a matter of sufficient magnitude to warrant a board meeting.
mail n. 1 post, correspondence; letters: Has the mail arrived? --v. 2 post, send, dispatch or despatch: Please mail this letter tonight.
main adj. 1 chief, primary, prime, (most) important, principal, cardinal, paramount, first, foremost, leading, pre-eminent, predominant, predominating, dominant, ranking, major; outstanding: The main cause of traffic deaths is drunken driving. In Britain, the main street of a town is called 'the High Street'. We arrived late and missed the main entertainment. 2 largest, biggest, greatest, strongest: The main part of the strike force landed in Normandy. 3 necessary, essential, basic, particular, fundamental, critical, crucial, vital: Economic recovery is the main thrust of our programme for reform. 4 sheer, brute, utter, pure, out-and-out, absolute, mere, plain: He lifted that block by main force! --n. 5 pipe, duct, channel, line, pipeline, water or gas main, Brit (electric) cable, mains, power (supply), conduit: Water reaches the city through a huge underground main. 6 strength, power, might, effort, energy, vigour: With all his might and main he tried to move the stone blocking the cave. 7 in the main. See mainly, below.
mainstay n. main or chief or principal support, anchor (to windward), sheet anchor, bulwark, buttress, linchpin, main or greatest strength: David remains the mainstay of the sales force.
maintenance n. 1 upkeep, care, preservation, conservation, support, sustention, sustentation: I can no longer afford the maintenance of a large country estate. 2 continuation, continuance, perpetuation, prolongation, persistence, maintaining: His maintenance of an untenable position will lose him votes. 3 upkeep, livelihood, subsistence, support, allowance, living, sustenance, stipend, subvention, contribution, alimony, keep: How much maintenance does he pay to his ex-wife and children?
major adj. 1 larger, greater, bigger, main, chief, important: Henderson grabbed the major portion of the credit. 2 vital, important, critical, crucial, principal, foremost, paramount, primary, prime, main, big, biggest, pre-eminent, notable, noteworthy, significant, outstanding, dominant, dominating; serious, grave, worst: The major problem in commercial kitchens is sanitation.
make v. 1 build, assemble, construct, erect, put together, set up, fashion, form, mould, shape, frame, create, originate, fabricate, manufacture, produce, put out, forge, contrive, devise: She makes her own dresses. They make TV sets here. The Colossus of Rhodes was said to be made of bronze. 2 cause, compel, force, impel, coerce, provoke, urge, exhort, press, pressure, require, command, order, induce, persuade, prevail upon, insist upon, oblige, Brit pressurize: The devil made me do it. 3 bring about, occasion, cause, give rise to: The new regulation is going to make trouble for you. 4 make out or up, draw (up), create, write, sign, frame: I made a new will leaving everything to my children. 5 produce, cause, create, generate: The engine made a funny noise, then died. 6 enact, pass, frame, establish, institute: He thinks that laws were made to be broken. 7 earn, return, reap, garner, take in, get, procure, gather, clear, realize, gross, net, pocket, get, acquire, obtain, receive; win, gain, Slang US pull down: Has her invention made money? He makes a good living out of his shop. He made 25 playing poker. 8 amount to, constitute, represent, add up to, total, come to: He knows how many beans make five. Three and two do not make four. One singer does not make an opera. 9 change, turn, alter, modify, transform, convert; transmute, mutate, metamorphose: He made her into a star. The alchemists tried to make base metal into gold. 10 become, be, change or turn or grow into, perform as: I think Quentin will make a brilliant surgeon one day. 11 serve as or for, be suitable for, be, prove to be, turn out to be, turn into, become: This cut of meat will not make a good roast. 12 fetch, realize, earn, return: The locket made 1000 at the auction. 13 score, earn, secure: The West Indies made 654 in their first innings. 14 reach, arrive at, attain, get (to), win, achieve, accomplish; come in, Brit be placed, US place: Fran might make first place in the marathon. 15 prepare, arrange, rearrange, tidy (up), neaten (up): You have made your bed, now you will have to lie on it. 16 record, arrange, fix, decide (on or upon), agree (to): I made an appointment to see the doctor. 17 prepare, fix, cook: I made what you like for dinner. 18 deliver, present: Janet made a good speech. 19 traverse, cover, do, travel, navigate: We cannot make more than 100 miles a day over this terrain. 20 do, go, travel or move at, move: His old banger could hardly make 40 mph 21 judge, think, calculate, estimate, reckon, gauge, suppose: What do you make of Sidney's new book? 22 establish, set up, organize: We made our headquarters in the farmhouse. 23 appoint, name, select, choose, elect, vote (in as), designate, authorize, commission, delegate, depute, deputize, assign, sanction, approve, affirm, certify, confirm: They made him their leader. 24 seduce, make it with: Kenneth tried to make Sharon last night. 25 make as if or as though. pretend, feign, act as if or as though, affect, make a show or pretence of, give the impression of: He made as if to strike me. 26 make away. run off or away, flee, fly, make off, abscond, take to one's heels, decamp, beat a (hasty) retreat, Colloq run for it, make a run for it, beat it, clear out, cut and run, skedaddle, take off, cut out, skip (town), make tracks, US fly the coop, Slang scram, vamoose, US hightail it, take a (run-out) powder: Taking the jewels, he made away as fast as he could run. 27 make away with. steal, rob, filch, pilfer, purloin, walk away or off with, Colloq borrow, liberate, boost, Slang pinch, hook, swipe, rip off, lift, US boost: That boy has made away with my cherry tarts! 28 make believe. pretend, fancy, play-act, dream, fantasize, imagine, act as if: We used to make believe we were grown-ups. 29 make do. get by or along, cope, scrape by or along, manage, muddle through, survive, Colloq make out: We have to make do on the pittance Randolph gets from the university. 30 make for. a head for or towards, aim for, steer (a course) for, proceed towards, be bound for: After this is done, I am making for the nearest pub. b assault, attack, set upon, charge, rush (at), pounce upon, fall upon or on, go for, lunge at, storm, assail: The big fellow was making for me with a knife when the lights went out. c promote, contribute to, be conducive to, favour, facilitate: Good fences make for good neighbours. 31 make good. a make up (for), pay (for), compensate for, recompense (for), repay, offset, make restitution for, settle, square, rectify, put to rights, set right, remedy, correct, restore: He agreed to make good any losses. b succeed, prosper, flourish, thrive, Colloq make it: In later life he made good as a property developer. c fulfil, carry out, Colloq deliver (the goods): She made good on her promise to return my book. 32 make it. a succeed, prosper, triumph, win, make good, Colloq make the grade: Do you think she will make it as a doctor? b arrive, get (somewhere), show up, appear, turn up: They are hoping to catch the 5:03 to Ipswich but I doubt if they will make it. 33 make known. tell of, impart, disclose, reveal, divulge, mention, communicate, announce, declare, promulgate, publish, let slip, Colloq tip off: She made known her demands. 34 make much of. a exaggerate, overstate, colour, hyperbolize, Colloq make a big deal of, blow up: He made much of his new title. b coddle, cosset, baby, pamper, dote on, flatter, toady (up) to, cajole, humour, indulge, Colloq butter up: Henry makes much of his grandchildren. 35 make off. See make, 26, above. 36 make off with. See make, 27, above. 37 make out. a see, discern, descry, espy, detect, discover, distinguish, perceive: I made out a dim figure in the gloom. b complete, fill in, Brit fill up, US and Canadian fill out: I made out an application for the job. c draw (up), write (out or down), record, Colloq US cut: Please make out a list of your complaints. Make out the cheque to me, personally. d understand, fathom, comprehend, figure out, perceive, follow, grasp, see, decipher, read: She mumbles so, I cannot make out what she's saying. Can you make out this name? e suggest, imply, hint, insinuate, indicate, impute, intimate, make to appear, pretend, make as if or as though, represent; present, show, demonstrate, establish: She tried to make out that I was a fool. He made out a strong case for dog licensing. f get on, survive, manage, fare, thrive, succeed: How are you making out in your new house? 38 make over. a do over, remodel, redecorate, alter: We are making over our kitchen. b transfer, hand over, sign over, convey, assign, turn over: The property has been made over to me. 39 make up. a complete, fill out, finish (out), flesh out: We need another player to make up the team. b compose, form, constitute, be comprised of: The gang is made up of ex-convicts. c hatch, invent, concoct, devise, create, construct, dream up, originate, coin, compose, Colloq cook up: He made up that story about the murder. d be reconciled, make peace, settle amicably, come to terms, bury the hatchet: The litigants have kissed and made up. e construct, build: The shack is made up of scrap boards. 40 make up for. compensate, redress, make good, atone, make amends: How can I make up for all the bad things I said about you? 41 make way. move aside, clear the way, allow to pass, make room or space: Make way for the Lord High Executioner! --n. 42 kind, brand, style, sort, type, mark: Foreign makes of car currently dominate the market-place. 43 on the make. aggressive, assertive, go-ahead, enterprising, vigorous, energetic, Colloq pushy: The book is about a young man on the make in today's financial world.
make-up n. 1 cosmetics, maquillage, greasepaint, Colloq warpaint: Do you think I am wearing too much make-up? 2 constitution, character, cast, disposition, personality: There is not an ounce of sympathy in Janet's make-up. 3 constitution, arrangement, construction, composition, format, configuration, build, form: What is the chemical make-up of the plastic?
malignant adj. 1 virulent, pernicious, deadly, fatal, toxic, poisonous, harmful, life-threatening: The tumour proved to be malignant. 2 malign, malevolent, evil, malicious, pernicious, vicious, invidious, spiteful, bitter, hateful, venomous: The expos was full of malignant insinuations.
manacle n. 1 manacles. shackles, fetters, handcuffs, gyves, chains, irons, Colloq cuffs, Slang bracelets, Brit darbies: The manacles are cutting into his wrists. --v. 2 shackle, fetter, handcuff, restrain, put or throw or clap in irons, chain, Colloq US cuff: The manacled prisoner was led away. 3 confine, inhibit, restrain, curb, check, control, hamper: They felt manacled by the nine o'clock curfew.
manageable adj. controllable; tractable, compliant, amenable, docile, tameable, tame, trainable, teachable, manipulable, submissive: Keep your spending within manageable limits. The dog is quite manageable.
manager n. supervisor, superintendent, director, executive, head, proprietor, overseer, foreman, forewoman, administrator, Chiefly Brit manageress , US straw boss, Colloq boss, chief: The position of manager entails a lot of responsibility.
mangle v. destroy, mutilate, butcher, deform, disfigure, spoil, mar, ruin, wreck; cut, hack, lacerate, chop (up), crush, damage, cripple, maim: Don't you hate the way they mangle the English language? His hand was badly mangled in the accident.
manhandle v. maul, paw, rough up, batter, beat (up), pummel, abuse, mistreat, maltreat, ill-treat, trounce, belabour, Slang knock about or around, clobber: His captors manhandled him into a car and drove off.
manhood n. 1 masculinity, manliness, manfulness, virility, Colloq machismo: He felt that looking after the children at home somehow compromised his manhood. 2 bravery, pluck, boldness, determination, resolution, fortitude, grit, spirit, force, US intestinal fortitude, Colloq guts: He joined the army to test his manhood.
maniac n. 1 madman, madwoman, lunatic, psychopath, psychotic, Colloq crackpot, Slang nut, Brit nutter, loony, US kook: In former times, maniacs were scorned and maltreated. 2 fanatic, fan, enthusiast, zealot, Slang freak, fiend: Since his retirement, he has become a golf maniac.
manifest adj. 1 apparent, clear, evident, obvious, plain, patent, blatant, conspicuous, unmistakable or unmistakeable, discernible, recognizable, comprehensible, distinct, palpable, definite, explicit, unambiguous, unquestionable, indubitable, indisputable: He lost his job because of his manifest dishonesty. --v. 2 show, demonstrate, exhibit, evince, reveal, disclose, display, betray; express, declare: Fitzsimmons had been manifesting signs of dissatisfaction with his assignment. 3 prove, corroborate, substantiate, attest: His distaste for cauliflower was manifested by the look on his face.
manifestly adv. evidently, clearly, obviously, plainly, apparently, patently, unmistakably or unmistakeably, palpably, unquestionably, indubitably, undoubtedly, indisputably: The treaty is manifestly to England's advantage.
manipulate v. 1 manage, handle, control, manoeuvre, orchestrate, choreograph, influence, use, exploit, play on, utilize: He knows how to manipulate people to make them do what he wants. 2 handle, control, operate, direct, work, use, employ, negotiate: The controls can be manipulated to make the robot imitate human motion. 3 rig, falsify, juggle, tamper with, doctor, Colloq cook, Chiefly Brit fiddle: He's been manipulating his expense account for years.
manner n. 1 way, mode, style, technique, procedure, method, fashion; means, approach: Her incisive manner of reporting is widely admired. 2 air, behaviour, mien, demeanour, bearing, deportment, comportment, conduct, attitude, aspect: His manner is overbearing and dictatorial. 3 manners. etiquette, decorum, (good) form, politeness, proprieties, protocol, politesse, civility, ceremony, social code, social graces, formalities, niceties, amenities, social conventions; behaviour, conduct: Can't you teach him some manners?
mannerism n. quirk, peculiarity, idiosyncrasy, trait, characteristic, habit: She has the irritating mannerism of pulling on her ear lobe.
mantle n. 1 cloak, cape, wrap, shawl, pelisse, pelerine: Over his armour he wore a mantle embroidered with his bearing. 2 covering, cover, sheet, veil, blanket, screen, cloak, shroud, pall, canopy, curtain: A mantle of snow lay on the ground. --v. 3 cover, clothe, envelop, surround, encircle, shroud, veil, screen, obscure, cloak, conceal, hide, mask, wrap, disguise: The mountains were brilliantly mantled and capped with snow.
manufacture v. 1 make, (mass-)produce, construct, build, assemble, fabricate, put together, turn out, create, originate: The company manufactures windscreen wipers. 2 concoct, create, contrive, invent, make up, fabricate, think up, US and Canadian create out of or from whole cloth, Colloq cook up: She manufactured that tale about being an orphan. --n. 3 making, (mass) production, construction, building, assembly, fabrication, turning or putting out, putting together, creation, origination: The manufacture of durable goods increased .02% in the last quarter.
many adj. 1 numerous, multitudinous, myriad, profuse, innumerable, numberless, uncountable: Many people have an irrational fear of spiders. 2 diverse, multifarious, varied, various, assorted, sundry, Literary divers: There are many kinds of courage. --pron. --n. 3 horde(s), crowd(s), lot(s), swarm(s), throng(s), mass(es), profusion, multitude(s), abundance, plenty, shoal(s), flock(s), drove(s), torrent(s), flood(s), number(s), score(s), hundred(s), (thousand(s), etc); Colloq ton(s), scads: A great many will turn out to vote next week. Many are picked but few are chosen.
march v. 1 parade, step, stride, strut, tread, pace, walk: They marched from Baxter Street to the Town Hall. --n. 2 parade, procession, demonstration, cortege or cortge, walk: The march was organized to protest against the government's nuclear arms policy. 3 walk, trek, slog, hike: We had a long march ahead of us to get to Hastings.
marginal adj. 1 borderline, minimal, small, slight, negligible, insignificant, tiny, infinitesimal: There are marginal differences in policy on this issue. 2 borderline, on the edge, disputable, questionable, doubtful, dubious: His qualifications for the job are marginal.
mark n. 1 spot, stain, blemish, smear, smudge, trace, impression, dent, nick, scratch, pock-mark or pock, streak, line, Brit splodge, US splotch: One of the children had made a mark on the newly painted wall. 2 sign, symbol, insigne, emblem, device, hallmark, earmark, fingerprint, badge, characteristic, token, brand, stamp, label, identification, indication, feature, attribute, trait, quality, property: This work bears the mark of true genius. 3 standard, criterion, norm, yardstick, level, measure: I'm afraid your son's work has not come up to the mark. 4 rating, grade, grading: I'd give her a low mark for originality but high marks for technique. 5 influence, impression, effect: Her innovations have left their mark on all music composed since 1900. 6 target, goal, objective, aim, purpose, end, object: Her criticisms fell wide of the mark. 7 marker, indicator, guide, signpost, landmark: The next mark, a bell-buoy, should be left to port. 8 consequence, importance, note, noteworthiness, notability, distinction, eminence, dignity, prestige, standing, account: Granada was a place of little mark as compared with Cordova. 9 make one's mark. succeed, get ahead, triumph, distinguish oneself, attain distinction, bring honour upon oneself, acquit oneself, bring credit to oneself, have an effect, Colloq make it big, make the grade: Randolph has made his mark in the world of scholarship. --v. 10 Sometimes, mark up. spot, stain, blemish, smear, smudge, streak, dent, trace, pock-mark, nick, scratch, cut, chip, pit, bruise: That glass has marked the finish on the table. 11 signify, specify, indicate, designate, identify, tick, label: Mark your choice with an 'X' next to the candidate's name. 12 pay attention to, attend (to), pay heed to, note, notice, take notice of, watch, see, look at, observe; respect, mind, heed, obey: Mark the way she swings the golf club. Mark my words or you'll be sorry. 13 brand, stamp, identify, characterize, distinguish: His music is marked by long atonal passages. 14 correct; grade, evaluate, assess, appraise: The teachers are busy marking exam papers. 15 mark down. a write (down), record, register, make (a) note of, note (down): Mark down these numbers in your book. b decrease, reduce, devalue, devaluate, cut, slash, discount: We marked down the prices for a quick sale. 16 mark up. a See 10, above. b increase, raise, hike, up: Prices were marked up to keep pace with inflation.
market n. 1 market-place, exchange, Stock Exchange: There are some excellent buys on the market. 2 shop, store, bazaar, supermarket, Chiefly US superstore: If you are going to the market, please buy some milk. 3 demand, customer base, call: The market for computers is still growing rapidly. --v. 4 sell, merchandise, retail, vend, peddle, hawk, make available, furnish; trade (in), buy and sell, deal in: We market these computers worldwide.
marriage n. 1 matrimony, wedlock: Their marriage has lasted over forty years. 2 nuptials, wedding: The marriage took place at noon. 3 association, alliance, confederation, federation, affiliation, connection, coupling, union, merger, amalgamation, integration, Colloq hook-up: Would a marriage of the companies benefit the shareholders?
marsh n. swamp, bog, fen, slough, quagmire: The marsh teems with new life in the spring. martial adj. 1 warlike, belligerent, bellicose, pugnacious, militant: We had no suspicion of their martial intentions. He is an expert in the martial arts. 2 military, soldierly, courageous, brave, valorous, valiant, stalwart, staunch, stout-hearted: The speech was intended to rouse the soldiers' martial spirit.
marvellous adj. wonderful, astonishing, amazing, astounding, surprising, remarkable, extraordinary, phenomenal, glorious, splendid, superb, excellent, spectacular, breathtaking, miraculous, unbelievable, incredible, sensational, mind-boggling, unparalleled, Colloq terrific, great, fantastic, fabulous, smashing, Slang far-out, crazy, wild, groovy, super, out of this world, fantabulous, Brit spot or bang on, US marvy: It was a marvellous show, and Renfrew is a marvellous actor.
masquerade n. 1 masked ball, masquerade ball, costume party, ballo in maschera, bal masqu: He went to the masquerade as Lorenzo di Medici. 2 disguise, deception, pose, dissimulation, bluff, subterfuge, false show, outward show, fakery, imposture, play-acting, false front, cover-up, camouflage, Colloq act, front, Slang put-on: How long will she continue her masquerade as a wealthy widow? --v. 3 Usually, masquerade as. pretend (to be), pass oneself off (as), impersonate, simulate, pose (as), imitate, mimic: He is a conservative masquerading as a liberal to garner votes.
massacre n. 1 slaughter, slaughtering, carnage, annihilation, annihilating, blood bath, killing, execution, extermination, exterminating, butchery, butchering, (mass) murder, murdering, slaying, liquidation, pogrom, genocide: The massacre of millions of innocent people followed the coup. --v. 2 slaughter, annihilate, kill, execute, exterminate, butcher, murder, slay, liquidate, destroy, eliminate, obliterate, eradicate, put to the sword, decimate, Colloq mow down, Slang bump off: It was their policy to massacre all the men and take captive all the women and children.
massive adj. big, large, oversized, huge, bulky, enormous, hulking, immense, gigantic, towering, mammoth, colossal, titanic, vast, tremendous, prodigious, mountainous, gargantuan, Brobdingnagian, Cyclopean, elephantine, jumbo, stupendous, mighty, weighty, ponderous, Literary massy, Colloq walloping, whopping, monster, Brit whacking (great), US ginormous, humongous: They built a massive wall round the city. Massive beams support the roof.
masterful adj. 1 masterly, adept, expert, excellent, superior, superb, adroit, exquisite, superlative, supreme, consummate, accomplished, peerless, matchless, first-rate, proficient, dexterous, deft, skilful, skilled, Colloq crack: She gave a masterful performance of Bruch's violin concerto. 2 authoritarian, dictatorial, tyrannical, despotic, arbitrary, domineering, imperious, overbearing, arrogant, dominating, autocratic, high-handed, magisterial, overweening, self-willed, Colloq bossy: I dislike Ian's masterful attitude, always telling everyone what to do.
masterpiece n. master-work, magnum opus, chef-d'oeuvre, tour de force, jewel, work of art, work of genius, pice de rsistance: Among his many fine paintings, I consider this his masterpiece.
matching adj. 1 corresponding, homologous, comparable, equivalent, complementary: Birds' wings and fishes' fins are matching parts. 2 analogous, like, corresponding, identical: He wore a pink jacket and matching shoes. She bought a set of matching luggage.
mate n. 1 companion, associate, colleague, fellow, chap, co-worker, comrade, crony, ally, friend, alter ego, Colloq chum, pal, US buddy, cohort, Slang Brit cully, china: After work, my mates and I stop off for a beer or two (or three ) . 2 spouse, partner, helpmeet, helpmate, consort, husband or wife, better half, Colloq hubby, old man or lady or woman, lord and master, US bride, Slang trouble and strife (= 'wife'): He scarcely seems a worthy mate for the winner of a Miss World contest. 3 fellow, twin, counterpart, parallel, one of a pair: Have you seen the mate to this sock anywhere? --v. 4 pair (up), match (up), marry, wed, join, unite, couple, link (up): People should be free to mate with whom they wish. 5 breed, couple, copulate, pair (up): The zoo was able to get the rhinoceroses to mate. A lion was mated with a tiger to produce a tigon. 6 match (up), fit (together), synchronize, join: I cannot get these gears to mate.
materialistic adj. expedient, money-oriented, possession-oriented, greedy, Slang yuppy: He's very materialistic and only married her for her money.
materially adv. substantially, palpably, significantly, seriously, essentially, basically, considerably, greatly, much, in the long run, at bottom: I doubt that his criticism will materially affect the success of the play.
maternity n. 1 motherhood, parenthood, pregnancy: Maternity brings about great changes in a woman's life. 2 parenthood, motherhood: The maternity of the child was not questioned until the hospital revealed that there had been a mix-up in the nursery.
matrimonial adj. marital, marriage, wedding, conjugal, nuptial; married, wedded, connubial: She obtained a court injunction banning him from the matrimonial home. They enjoy matrimonial bliss.
matter-of-fact adj. straightforward, direct, forthright, sober, factual, unimaginative, unartistic, prosaic, unpoetic, dry, dry-as-dust, dull, boring, tiresome, flat, mundane, lifeless, featureless, unvarnished, colourless, unembellished, unadorned: The report contained a matter-of-fact description of the events.
maturity n. 1 adulthood, majority, full growth or development: Maturity is as much a state of mind as a matter of age. 2 ripeness, readiness, mellowness; maturation: Different wines need ageing for different periods to attain maturity. 3 readiness, perfection, completion, fullness, consummation, operability, applicability; maturation: Their plans were brought to maturity.
maxim n. saying, proverb, axiom, aphorism, adage, byword, saw, apophthegm or apothegm, epigram, motto, slogan; mot, witticism; clich, truism: Her maxim is, 'What you don't know, can't hurt you'.
maximum n. 1 most, utmost, uttermost, greatest, peak, extreme, extremity, pinnacle, top, highest, (upper) limit: Turn the volume up to the maximum. 2 zenith, pinnacle, peak, limit, apex, acme, apogee, climax, crest, high(est) point, top, summit: Her career reached its maximum in the 1930s. --adj. 3 maximal, greatest, most, utmost, uttermost, superlative, supreme, paramount, extreme, highest, top, topmost, climactic, crowning: The maximum amount that I can afford for a car is 2000.
mayhem n. maihem, violence, havoc, destruction, disorder, devastation, chaos; fracas, commotion, confusion: Someone screamed 'Fire!', and the ensuing mayhem was unbelievable.
meagre adj. 1 scanty, scant, poor, paltry, inadequate, skimpy, scrimpy, sparse, spare, insufficient, bare, puny, piddling, trifling, pathetic, exiguous, Colloq measly: Angela scraped out a meagre living as a shop assistant. The meagre supplies wouldn't last another day. 2 spare, skinny, scrawny, bony, emaciated, gaunt, thin, lean, bare-boned, (half-)starved, underfed, undernourished, starving: The meagre faces of the survivors told of their ordeal. 3 spare, plain, bare-boned, unadorned, unembellished, unelaborate, unelaborated, simple, simplified, oversimplified, bare, inadequate, deficient, undetailed, indefinite, non-specific, general, broad, loose, vague: The police have only a meagre description to go on. 4 unfruitful, infertile, barren, deficient, poor, unproductive: This land is too meagre to provide the people with a living.
mealy-mouthed adj. mincing, reticent, reluctant, hesitant, equivocal, equivocating, ambiguous, indirect, unwilling to call a spade a spade, euphemistic, roundabout, vague, circumlocutory, periphrastic, hypocritical, deceitful, artful, slick, oily, unctuous: All you'll get from that mealy-mouthed hypocrite is platitudinous twaddle.
mean adj. 1 stingy, miserly, tight, close, cheap, parsimonious, penurious, stinting, niggardly, penny-pinching, tight-fisted, close-fisted, mercenary, uncharitable, ungenerous, mean-spirited, unaccommodating, small, petty, Colloq near, money-grubbing, measly, Brit mingy: He is far too mean to buy anyone a Christmas present. It seems rather a mean contribution to the fund, given his wealth. 2 lowly, low, base, inferior, abject, menial, servile, degraded, degenerate, undignified, ignoble, plebeian, proletarian, modest, humble, common: He rose to a position of great power in spite of his mean background. 3 disgraceful, run-down, poor, sorry, miserable, scruffy, seedy, scurvy, shabby, squalid, wretched, vile, mangy, sordid, contemptible, dismal, dreary, abysmal: They live in very mean circumstances. 4 unkind, malicious, cruel, unaccommodating, disobliging: It was very mean of you to steal that toy from the baby. 5 cantankerous, churlish, nasty, hostile, ill-tempered, bad-tempered, sour, unpleasant: That mean old lady would never even talk to us. 6 excellent, wonderful, marvellous, great, exceptional, effective, skilful, skilled, Slang far-out, US bad: The saxophonist in that combo is one mean cat.
meander v. 1 wander, ramble, zigzag, snake, wind, twist, turn; stroll, amble, rove, Colloq mosey, Brit swan around or about: The river meandered with a mazy motion through the meadows. We meandered through the forest. --n. 2 Often, meanders. meandering(s), turn(s), turning(s), twist(s), twisting(s), winding(s), curve(s), curving(s), loop(s), looping(s), bend(s), coil(s), zigzag(s), convolutions; tortuosities, flexuosities, anfractuosities: We followed the river's meanders till we came to the ruined church.
meaning n. 1 sense, import, content, signification, denotation, message, substance, gist: The meaning of the word 'lucid' is clear. 2 purport, implication, drift, spirit, connotation, significance, intention: You understand my meaning, so I need not explain. 3 interpretation, explanation: What is the meaning of my dream about being attacked by my philodendron?
meaningless adj. 1 empty, hollow, vacuous, unsubstantial, absurd, silly, foolish, fatuous, asinine, ridiculous, preposterous, nonsensical: He gave some meaningless excuse for having forgotten the appointment. This gibberish is entirely meaningless to me. 2 ineffective, ineffectual, inefficacious, bootless, unavailing, to no avail, trivial, nugatory, trifling, puny, paltry, worthless, not worth anything or a straw or a rap, valueless, inconsequential, unimportant, of no moment, insubstantial, vain, pointless, senseless, purposeless, undirected, irrelevant, insignificant: Considering the enemy forces, anything we could do would be meaningless. means n. See mean, 4, above. meantime n., adv. See meanwhile, below.
measly adj. sparse, scant, scanty, meagre, paltry, pathetic, skimpy, puny, piddling, miserly, niggardly, miserable, beggarly, stingy, Colloq Brit mingy: 'Nouvelle cuisine' is the name given to a restaurateur's design to serve decorative, but measly, portions.
measured adj. 1 slow, regulated, unhurried, leisurely, stately, majestic, dignified, sedate, solemn: The silent procession moved through the streets at a measured pace. 2 careful, cautious, prudent, calculated, studied, considered, deliberate, systematic, sober, intentional, planned, regulated, premeditated, well-thought-out, reasoned: He planned the murder with the same measured deliberation he used in writing computer programs. 3 rhythmic(al), regular, cadenced, steady, uniform, even, monotonous: The measured marching of the soldiers echoed through the night. 4 precise, regulated, exact, predetermined, modulated, quantified; clockwork: A measured amount of each ingredient is automatically added at each stage of the manufacturing process.
meat n. 1 flesh; food, nourishment, sustenance, viands, victuals, nutriment, provisions, provender, comestibles, edibles, eatables, Colloq eats, chow, grub: She's turned vegetarian and won't touch meat in any form. 2 pith, core, heart, marrow, kernel, vital part, essence, gist, substance, basics, essentials, crux: The sub-plot seems to swamp the real meat of the play.
mechanism n. 1 device, appliance, contrivance, apparatus, instrument, machine: This mechanism will detonate the bomb at the right moment. 2 machinery, workings, works, structure, system, organization, arrangement: Astrophysicists can offer only an imperfect account of the mechanism of the universe. 3 way, means, method, procedure, approach, technique, medium, process, agency: We shall use every mechanism at our disposal to have the case heard by a different judge. 4 materialism, mechanicalism, physicalism, logical positivism, identity theory, monism: His notions of mechanism reject the idea of free-thinking individualism.
mediator n. arbitrator, arbiter, referee, umpire, judge, negotiator, intermediary, go-between, middleman, moderator, liaison, intercessor, interceder, conciliator, appeaser, peacemaker: To avoid a lawsuit, they agreed to allow a mediator to settle their differences.
medicine n. medication, medicament, remedy, drug, pharmaceutical, prescription, Archaic physic; nostrum, panacea, cure-all: There is no medicine that can cure your affliction.
meditate v. 1 reflect, think, muse, ponder, study, ruminate, cogitate, contemplate, cerebrate, be lost in thought, be in a brown study: Please don't interrupt me while I'm meditating. 2 Often, meditate on or upon. consider, contemplate, mull over, reflect on or upon, ponder on or over, chew over, plan, scheme, devise, design, conceive, frame, think up, have in mind: She was meditating revenge, while I was meditating on how to discourage her.
medium adj. 1 average, middle, mid, medial, median, normal, standard, usual, everyday, ordinary; mid-sized: His wife has an estate car of medium size - nothing extravagant. 2 See mediocre, above. --n. 3 average, middle, mid-point, compromise, centre, mean, norm, mediocrity: Instead of going to extremes, try for the happy medium. 4 atmosphere, environment, ambience or ambiance, milieu: The air serves as a medium of sound. The light is refracted as it passes into a denser medium. 5 means, method, mode, approach, instrumentality, device, mechanism, intermediation, technique, contrivance, agency, expedient, way, course, route, road, avenue, channel, conveyance, vehicle: Latin and Greek were the media of the scholarship, the science, and the theology of the Middle Ages. Television is a powerful advertising medium.
meek adj. 1 modest, humble, submissive, unassuming, unambitious, unpretentious, mild, bland, patient, deferential, shy, retiring, lowly: The meek shall inherit the earth. 2 tame, timid, weak, docile, compliant, submissive, yielding, acquiescent, docile, unaggressive, non-militant, tractable, manageable, subdued, repressed, spiritless, suppressed, broken, Colloq wimpish: The people are meek and will not offer any resistance to such dictatorial government.
meet adj. fitting, suitable, appropriate, proper, fit, congruous: It is meet to offer praises to God.
melancholy adj. 1 sad, morose, depressed, unhappy, dejected, despondent, blue, downhearted, glum, gloomy, woeful, woebegone, lugubrious, disconsolate, downcast, dispirited, low-spirited, cheerless, crestfallen, chap-fallen, forlorn, heartbroken, mournful, sorrowful, miserable, dismal, Colloq down in the mouth, (down) in the dumps, low: Harold has been melancholy ever since Lucy left. --n. 2 sadness, sorrow, misery, woe, gloom, unhappiness, blues, moroseness, depression, dejection, dejectedness, despondence, despondency, downheartedness, glumness, gloominess, woefulness, lugubriousness, disconsolateness, dispiritedness, cheerlessness, mournfulness, sorrowfulness, miserableness, dolour, anguish: Getting Harold's mind off his problems may relieve his melancholy.
melodious adj. sweet(-sounding), dulcet, tuneful, euphonious, harmonious, melodic, lyrical, musical, mellifluous, mellisonant, silvery, golden: I agreed with her father that Sylvia has a most melodious voice.
melody n. 1 song, tune, air, strain, measure, theme, refrain: Isn't that the melody from Mimi's aria in La Bohme ? 2 tunefulness, melodiousness, euphoniousness, euphony, harmony, musicality, sweetness: The older music seems to be marked by so much more melody than rock 'n' roll.
member n. colleague, associate, fellow: I am going to propose Fred as a member of the club.
memoir n. 1 account, report, reportage, narrative, essay, dissertation, disquisition, paper, journal, record, biography, life: They found her memoir about life in the jungle very exciting. 2 memoirs. autobiography, reminiscences, recollections, memories, diary, confessions, letters, life story; annals, history, account(s), record(s), chronology: She was reading the memoirs of Henry Kissinger.
memorandum n. note, record, minute, reminder, message, Brit chit or chitty, Colloq memo: Send a memorandum reminding them of the meeting.
memorialize v. honour, commemorate, pay homage or respect or tribute to, remember, eulogize, celebrate, mark: His life, devoted to botany, is memorialized in these beautiful gardens.
memory n. 1 recall, recollection, retention: My memory of the incident is very vivid. She has a poor memory for faces. 2 recollection, reminiscence, thought: The interviewer was drawing on grandfather's memories of the 1920s. 3 remembrance, honour, homage, respect, tribute, celebration: He wrote a sequence of poems in memory of a dear friend.
menacing adj. threatening, looming, impending, ominous, frightening, terrifying, intimidating, minacious, minatory or minatorial, louring or lowering; dangerous, perilous, hazardous, risky, chancy: Menacing storm clouds scudded across the darkening sky.
menial adj. 1 lowly, servile, humble, subservient, base, low, mean, slavish, demeaning, degrading, ignoble; routine, unskilled: He took a number of menial jobs to pay for his daughter's wedding. 2 servile, fawning, grovelling, toadying, sycophantic, obsequious, cringing, time-serving, flattering, snivelling, Colloq boot-licking, Taboo slang brown-nosing: His insecurity makes him surround himself with menial hangers-on. --n. 3 lackey, flunkey, serf, slave, underling, minion, Brit fag, Colloq Brit dogsbody, skivvy, US gofer: He works as one of the menials in the hotel kitchen. 4 toady, sycophant, yes-man, lickspittle, leech, parasite, time-server, Colloq bootlicker, Taboo slang brown-nose(r): The film star was attended by a retinue of menials, all anxious to keep in her favour.
mentality n. 1 intelligence, brain, capacity, intellect, wit, sense, judgement, acuity, acumen, IQ, rationality, understanding: I'd say that Frank is a man of average mentality. 2 inclination, attitude, bent, mind-set, disposition, frame of mind, temperament, outlook, view: The news betrays little about what is actually happening, but much about the mentality of the leadership. They criticized Britain's 'island mentality'.
mercantile adj. commercial, business, trade, marketing, market: The book dealt with the mercantile affairs of the Hanseatic League.
merchandise n. 1 goods, commodities, products, stock, staples, produce: The merchandise you ordered was shipped yesterday. --v. 2 trade, deal in, traffic in, market, distribute, retail, (buy and) sell, promote, advertise: We are merchandising the new product line via direct mail.
merciful adj. compassionate, sympathetic, forgiving, kind, kindly, clement, kind-hearted, forbearing, sparing, lenient, tender, humane, liberal, mild, tender-hearted, soft-hearted, gracious, generous, magnanimous, benignant, beneficent, charitable, thoughtful, considerate, indulgent, big: She begged the governor to be merciful and to spare her life.
mercy n. compassion, pity, forbearance, quarter, tolerance, sympathy, favour, forgiveness, kindness, kindliness, leniency, tenderness, humanity, humaneness, liberality, kind-heartedness, tender-heartedness, soft-heartedness, graciousness, generosity, magnanimity, benignity, beneficence, charity, thoughtfulness, consideration, indulgence: May the Lord have mercy on your soul. We could expect no mercy from that slave-driver.
merely adv. 1 only, simply; basically, purely, essentially, fundamentally, at bottom: I was merely going to ask if you'd like to go to the cinema. 2 only, no more than; barely, scarcely, simply, solely, entirely: She was merely the scullery-maid. We can't unlock the safe merely on your authority.
merger n. combination, coalescence, union, merging, amalgamation, consolidation, coalition, pooling, blending, mixing, mingling, commingling, fusing, fusion: A merger of the two firms might result in a monopoly.
meritorious adj. honourable, laudable, praiseworthy, commendable, creditable, admirable, estimable, excellent, exemplary, outstanding: Penny has won the company award for meritorious service five months in a row.
merry adj. 1 cheerful, happy, gay, cheery, jolly, jovial, in high or good spirits, mirthful, joyful, joyous, hilarious, jubilant, rejoicing, festive, exhilarating, exuberant, vivacious, convivial, buoyant, gleeful, blithe, blithesome, carefree, light-hearted, delighted: Didn't we have a merry old time at the Christmas party! 2 make merry. revel, celebrate, carouse, frolic: The guests made merry till the wee hours of the morning.
mess n. 1 chaos, disorder, disarray, disorganization, shambles, muddle, disarrangement, clutter, hotchpotch or US also hodgepodge, litter, tangle, jumble, confusion, mishmash; untidiness: Would you help me clean up this mess? Drugs have made a mess of her life. 2 concoction, mixture, medley, miscellany, hash, gallimaufry, farrago, olio, olla podrida, pot-pourri, smorgasbord or smrgsbord, kedgeree: They presented us with a huge mess of things from which we must select what we want. 3 predicament, difficulty, plight, pinch, trouble, dilemma, quandary, imbroglio, Colloq foul-up, stew, fix, hot water, (pretty or fine) kettle of fish, pickle, jam, Slang screw-up, Brit balls-up, can of worms, US snafu: You have got yourself into a fine mess this time! --v. 4 mess about or around (with). a potter, fool (around), dally, busy oneself, fiddle about or around, play: He enjoys messing about in boats. b philander, trifle, toy, flirt, seduce, sleep around, fool around, run around: She doesn't want him to mess about with other women. 5 mess up. a disarrange, disarray, dishevel, tousle, Colloq US muss (up): He always messes up my hair when he kisses me. b ruin, destroy, make a shambles of, wreck, bungle, botch, foul up, Colloq make a hash of, Slang muck up: Making that one little mistake messed up his whole career. c dirty, clutter up, make untidy, turn upside down, pull to pieces, upset: The police messed up my whole house looking for the pistol. 6 mess with. interfere in or with, intervene, meddle with or in, intrude in, butt in or into, tinker with, tamper with, get involved in or with: They ought to learn not to mess with things that don't concern them.
messenger n. envoy, emissary, legate, nuncio, intermediary, go-between; page, errand-boy, errand-girl, messenger-boy, messenger-girl, courier, runner, dispatch-rider, Pheidippides, Mercury, Hermes; herald, harbinger; Colloq US gofer: If you don't like the message, don't take it out on the messenger.
metaphor n. figure (of speech), allusion, analogy, analogue, reference, image, trope, symbol; simile, parabole; metonymy, symbolism, imagery: When she said she was blue, she was using 'blue' as a metaphor. Poetry is rife with metaphor.
mete v. Usually, mete out. deal (out), apportion, distribute, dole (out), allot, assign, allocate, parcel out, share (out), ration (out), measure out, dispense, hand out, give out, pass out, Colloq dish out: Punishment was meted out to those who deserved it.
method n. 1 way, means, procedure, approach, route, avenue, road, mode, manner, technique, process, routine, modus operandi; plan, scheme, programme, course, routine, practice, pattern, system, methodology; Colloq US MO: What method was used to arrive at the answer? 2 arrangement, order, system, structure, organization, design, pattern, orderliness, neatness, regularity, discipline: There is a discernible, underlying method to what seems superficially chaotic.
meticulous adj. careful, precise, accurate, exact, fastidious, scrupulous, thorough, particular, painstaking, punctilious, fussy, finicky, demanding, strict, critical, exacting, perfectionist: His work is noted for its meticulous attention to detail.
microbe n. micro-organism, microzoon, germ; bacterium, virus, Colloq bug: Only recently has science learnt that diseases are caused by microbes.
middle adj. 1 central, centre, halfway, mid, midway, mean, medial, Technical mesial: We had reached the middle stage of our journey. Her index finger and middle finger are almost exactly the same length. --n. 2 centre, mid-point, midst, halfway point; heart, bull's-eye: He lives in the middle of the city. The arrow found the very middle of the target. 3 midriff, waist, mid-section, stomach: She wore a red sash round her middle.
midwife n. accoucheur or accoucheuse: Most babies in the world are delivered by midwives.
mighty adj. 1 powerful, strong, potent, influential, dominant, predominant, ascendant, weighty, doughty, authoritarian, autocratic, indomitable: The pen is mightier than the sword. He should have thought twice before challenging such a mighty opponent. 2 strong, muscular, powerful, robust, strapping, sturdy, brawny, burly, well-built, able-bodied, hardy, Colloq husky, hefty: The smith a mighty man was he, With large and sinewy hands. 3 big, large, huge, grand, great, enormous, gigantic, tremendous, towering, monumental, prodigious, massive, bulky: The giant plucked a mighty tree from the earth and flung it across the sea. --adv. 4 very, extremely: It was mighty nice of you to visit me here in the Ozarks.
migrate v. 1 go, move, travel, settle, resettle, relocate, move house; emigrate, immigrate, expatriate: During the potato famine, many migrated from Ireland to America. 2 wander, roam, voyage, rove, drift, range: Some say that the American Indians migrated across the Bering land bridge from Asia.
milieu n. environment, climate, surroundings, environs, background, ambience or ambiance, sphere, setting, atmosphere, medium, element, precincts: The British Library was the perfect milieu in which to pursue his research and writing.
military adj. 1 martial, soldierly, naval, army, fighting, service: The military machine was poised to strike. --n. 2 (armed) services or forces, army, navy, air force, military establishment, soldiery: The military will oppose any reductions in spending for arms.
milk v. drain, bleed, extract, tap, exploit, wring, draw off or out, withdraw: The comic milked the joke for yet another laugh. The taxman is milking me dry.
mill n. 1 grinder, quern, crusher, roller: In many parts of the world, corn is still ground by hand in a stone mill. 2 plant, factory, works, workshop, shop, foundry: This mill turns out rolled steel. 3 been through the mill. experienced, knowledgeable, sophisticated, toughened, hardened, seasoned, battle-scarred, Colloq been through the wringer, in the know: He's been through the mill and knows what to expect. 4 run-of-the-mill. average, unexceptional, ordinary, common, unremarkable, everyday, basic, simple, Brit common-or-garden variety, US garden-variety: Critics found her voice pleasant but rather run-of-the-mill. --v. 5 grind, crush, comminute, powder, pulverize, grate, granulate, pound, triturate, masticate, bray; crunch, mince: Flour milled to a very fine consistency is more suitable for pastries than for breads. 6 mill about or around. meander, wander, walk, stroll, amble, move about or around, crowd, throng, swarm: There were quite a few people milling about our stand at the trade fair.
mincing adj. effeminate, dainty, delicate, niminy-piminy, foppish, dandyish, over-dainty, affected, put-on, pretentious, precious, Brit twee, Colloq la-di-da or lah-di-dah or la-de-da: His mincing speech sets my teeth on edge.
minder n. 1 child-minder, babysitter, sitter, nanny, nurse, governess: The minder will put the children to bed. 2 bodyguard, escort, protector: Arthur hired an ex-fighter as his minder.
mindless adj. 1 stupid, asinine, thick, thickheaded, obtuse, idiotic, imbecilic, moronic, thoughtless, witless, senseless, brainless, feeble-minded, fatuous, addle-brained, addle-pated, feather-brained, Colloq Brit gormless: Many of the programmes on television are mindless twaddle. 2 inattentive, unthinking, thoughtless, unaware: He plunged into the pool, mindless of any of the perils that awaited him.
mingle v. 1 mix, blend, intermingle, commingle, intermix, combine, amalgamate, merge, compound, marry, join, unite: The stories cleverly mingle gravity and levity, the mundane and the magical. There was loud applause, mingled with a few chuckles and gasps. 2 mix, socialize, associate, join, circulate, fraternize, hobnob, consort, go, spend time, Colloq hang about or around or out, rub shoulders, Brit pal up, US pal around: I asked Fred to mingle with the guests and make them feel at home.
minimal adj. least, smallest, minutest, littlest, tiniest, slightest; minimum, nominal, token: As a house plant, the cactus requires minimal attention. There is a minimal charge for service.
minimum n. 1 least, lowest, nadir: The hotel offered the minimum of comfort for the maximum price. --adj. 2 minimal, nominal, reduced, minutest, littlest, least, slightest, lowest: What is the minimum deposit the travel agent will accept? He refused to make even the minimum effort needed to save himself.
ministry n. 1 priesthood, sacred calling, the church, the pulpit, the cloth; religion, holy orders: Burt retired from the ministry to write tracts. 2 clergy, clergymen or clergywomen, clericals, the cloth, church elders or elders of the church: During his regime, the ministry exercised great influence on the government. 3 department, office, bureau, agency: Military affairs are the responsibility of the Ministry of Defence.
minstrel n. bard, troubadour, balladeer, jongleur, skald or scald, minnesinger, Meistersinger: The medieval minstrels wandered the countryside, entertaining as they went.
minute n. 1 instant, second, split second, flash, moment, before you can say 'Jack Robinson', blink or wink or twinkling of an eye, coup d'oeil, trice, Colloq one sec, two secs, bat of an eye, shake, jiffy, tick, Brit half a mo, two shakes (of a lamb's tail): I'll be with you in a minute. 2 minutes. log, record, journal, transcript, notes, summary, rsum, proceedings, transactions, memorandum: Have you the minutes of the last meeting? 3 up to the minute. latest, newest, modern, up to date, trendy, fashionable, smart, all the rage, in vogue, stylish, in style, in fashion, la mode, Colloq in, with it, hep or hip, hot, cool, US now: She always wears the most up-to-the-minute clothes. --v. 4 record, transcribe, take down, write down, note, make (a) note of, document, log: We need someone to minute the meeting.
miraculous adj. marvellous, wonderful, wondrous, incredible, unbelievable, inexplicable, unexplainable, extraordinary, spectacular, amazing, astounding, astonishing, mind-boggling, remarkable, phenomenal, fantastic, fabulous; magical, supernatural, preternatural, superhuman, Colloq out of this world, Slang far-out, crazy: Langley has made a miraculous recovery from yellow fever.
mirror n. 1 looking-glass, glass, speculum, reflector: She stared at her reflection in the mirror, wondering whether she should grow her hair. 2 reflection, reproduction, picture, representation, replication, (mirror) image: Language is the mirror of society, reflecting every social change. --v. 3 reflect, reproduce, represent, depict, repeat, echo, send back: The calm lake mirrored the moonlight. The people's misery was mirrored in their faces.
misalliance n. msalliance, mismarriage, mismatch, mismatchment, bad match, mismating: No one is surprised that John and Marsha's misalliance has ended in divorce.
misanthropic adj. man-hating; antisocial, unsocial, unfriendly, egocentric, egoistic: In his misanthropic moods, Joel disdains human company.
misbehave v. disobey, behave badly or improperly, be bad or naughty or mischievous, Colloq carry on, act up, Slang raise hell, raise Cain: The teacher sent for me because Robyn misbehaved in class.
miscalculate v. misjudge, err, misevaluate, misestimate, misreckon, miscompute, miscount, misappreciate, misread; underestimate, undervalue, underrate; overestimate, overvalue, overrate: She miscalculated the effect of her resignation.
miscarry v. abort, fail, fall through, break down, go wrong, founder, come to nothing or naught or nought, go awry, come to grief, go amiss, misfire, go up or end up in smoke, perish, die: The plan to steal the crown jewels miscarried.
miscellany n. mixture, assortment, variety, medley, diversity, mixed bag, job lot, rag-bag, mlange, pot-pourri, gallimaufry, motley, hotchpotch or US and Canadian hodgepodge, salmagundi, olio, olla podrida, smorgasbord or smrgsbord, odds and ends, omnium gatherum, hash, mess, Brit lucky dip, jumble, US grab-bag: A miscellany of household goods was contributed for the jumble sale.
mischievous adj. 1 naughty, impish, roguish, rascally, devilish, elfish or elvish, puckish, scampish, frolicsome, playful, sportive: Tying his cousin's shoelaces together was a mischievous prank and not malicious. 2 harmful, injurious, hurtful, damaging, pernicious, detrimental, destructive, deleterious, dangerous, spiteful, malicious, vicious, malign, baleful, baneful, noxious, wicked, evil, bad: The government regards as mischievous the detention of any Foreign Office personnel.
misconception n. false or wrong notion or idea, misunderstanding, misconstruction, misconstrual, misjudgement, miscalculation, misapprehension, mistaken belief, error, mistake, delusion: The confused wording of the warranty could result in a misconception of one's rights.
misdeed n. Often, misdeeds. offence, crime, felony, wrongdoing, misdoing, transgression, misdemeanour, fault, misconduct, sin, trespass, wrong, peccadillo: Who will punish him for his misdeeds now that he is safe in Argentina?
miser n. skinflint, hoarder, niggard, penny-pincher, pinchpenny, cheese-parer, Scrooge, Colloq cheapskate, US tightwad: For that old miser, charity begins and ends at home.
miserly adj. stingy, penurious, niggardly, penny-pinching, parsimonious, mean, cheap, cheese-paring, tight, tight-fisted, close, close-fisted, mercenary, avaricious, greedy, covetous, Colloq money-grubbing, Brit mingy, US chintzy: Flynn is too miserly to lend you a penny.
misfire v. 1 fail, abort, miscarry, go wrong, fizzle (out), fall through, Colloq flop, come a cropper, Brit go phut, US go pfft or phft: The plan to take over the conglomerate misfired when the shares soared in price. --n. 2 miscarriage, failure, fizzle, dud, Colloq abort, flop: After two misfires, we gave up trying to buy a time-share in the Algarve.
misfortune n. 1 bad luck, ill luck, ill fortune, hard luck, infelicity, adversity, loss: He had the misfortune to marry the wrong woman. 2 accident, misadventure, mishap, calamity, catastrophe, mischance, disaster, contretemps, tragedy, blow, shock; reverse, stroke of bad luck, Colloq bad news: With the death of his father, then his illness, then the loss of his business, one misfortune followed another.
misguided adj. misled, wrong, misdirected, foolish, unreasonable, erroneous, mistaken, misplaced, imprudent, unwise, impolitic, ill-advised, fallacious, uncalled-for, labouring under a misapprehension, wide of the mark, Colloq off (the mark), barking up the wrong tree: Her helpfulness is often misguided, ending in disaster for all concerned.
mishmash n. mess, medley, hash, gallimaufry, farrago, pot-pourri, jumble, pastiche, mixture, salmagundi, hotchpotch or US and Canadian hodgepodge, tangle, omnium gatherum, mlange, olio, olla podrida, goulash, stew: His paper is nothing more than a mishmash of other people's ideas.
misinformation n. disinformation, misintelligence; red herring, false trail, false scent: When we uncover an enemy agent in our midst, we allow him to collect misinformation.
mislay v. misplace, lose, mislocate; misfile: I have mislaid my reading spectacles.
mismatched adj. mismated, ill-matched, ill-mated, incompatible, unfit, inappropriate, unsuited, unsuitable, incongruous, misallied, disparate, uncongenial, inconsistent, inharmonious, discordant: With her interest in art and his in football, they made a mismatched pair.
misrepresent v. distort, twist, pervert, garble, misstate, mangle, falsify, belie, disguise, colour: In his report, he misrepresented everything I said.
miss n. Ms., girl, lass, lassie, maid, maiden, young lady, young woman, schoolgirl, mademoiselle, nymphet, teenager, virgin, spinster, old maid, Brit bachelor girl, Irish English colleen, Literary nymph, Archaic demoiselle, damsel, Colloq old-fashioned gal, US coed, Valley girl, bachelorette, Slang teeny-bopper, groupie, Chiefly Brit bird, Old-fashioned US bobby-soxer: She's a pretty young miss, isn't she?
missile n. projectile, brickbat; guided missile, ballistic missile: Bottles, stones, and other missiles were thrown at the police during the riot.
missionary n. evangelist, preacher, minister, proselytizer: During the 19th century, many missionaries were dispatched to spread the faith in Africa.
misspent adj. wasted, squandered, idle, dissipated, thrown away, profitless, prodigal: Proficiency at billiards is a sign of a misspent youth.
misstep n. 1 false step, blunder, mistake, error, bad or wrong or false move, trip, stumble, slip: One misstep meant a fall into the abyss. 2 indiscretion, mistake, lapse, faux pas, oversight, error, gaffe, Colloq slip-up, Slang howler, Brit bloomer, US and Canadian blooper, goof: Her misstep was telling her fianc's mother that she had formerly been an artist's model.
mistake n. 1 misconception, misapprehension, error, fault, miscalculation, misjudgement, blunder, botch, fumble, bad move, misstep, slip, erratum, gaffe, faux pas, Colloq boo-boo, clanger, muff, howler, Brit boob, bloomer, US blooper, goof, goof-up, flub: Giving Aston a salary rise was a mistake. 2 indiscretion, misstep, false step, wrong move: It was a mistake not to stand up when she entered. --v. 3 misunderstand, misinterpret, misjudge, misconstrue, take the wrong way, get wrong, misread, misapprehend: The fool mistook my remark as a compliment. 4 mistake for. mix up with, misidentify as, confuse with, take for: In the dark, she mistook him for her husband.
mistreat v. abuse, maltreat, ill-use, ill-treat, misuse, damage, manhandle, harm; hurt, injure, molest, maul, rough up, brutalize: He was found guilty of mistreating his dogs. She was mistreated by her husband for years.
mistress n. 1 lover, girlfriend, live-in lover, kept woman, concubine, inamorata, paramour, Literary odalisque, Archaic doxy, Colloq US alternative other, POSSLQ (= 'Person of the Opposite Sex Sharing Living Quarters'): She was the mistress of a leading politician. 2 schoolmistress, instructress, governess; headmistress: She had a rewarding career as a mistress in a girls' school in Lancashire.
misty adj. cloudy, foggy, hazy, murky; fuzzy, dim, blurred, blurry, unclear, indistinct, vague, dark, opaque, shadowy, obscure, unintelligible: It is very misty, so drive carefully. I have only the mistiest idea of what you mean.
misunderstanding n. 1 misconception, misconstruction, misinterpretation, misapprehension, misreading, misjudgement, miscalculation, wrong idea, wrong or false impression, mistaking, Technical parasynesis: Misunderstanding of the law is no excuse for flouting it. 2 disagreement, discord, dispute, argument, difference, dissension, controversy, quarrel, rift, Colloq falling out: We had a slight misunderstanding about who was to pay the restaurant bill.
mitigate v. moderate, temper, reduce, abate, lessen, decrease, relieve, ease, ease up (on), relax, alleviate, remit, assuage, allay, let up (on), slacken, slacken up (on), tone down, lighten, appease, palliate, mollify, calm, tranquillize, soothe, placate, quiet or chiefly Brit quieten, still, soften, dull, blunt, take the edge off, US lighten up (on): The pain was mitigated by taking aspirin. The relief organizations did their best to mitigate the effects of the disaster.
mix v. 1 mingle, combine, intermingle, blend, incorporate, put together, merge, unite, alloy, commingle, amalgamate, coalesce: Mix the ingredients to a creamy consistency. 2 socialize, fraternize, consort, hobnob, go round or around or about (together), get together, keep company, join (with), associate (with), Colloq hang out or about or round or around (with): The Hatfields and the McCoys do not mix very well, so you'd best invite them separately. 3 mix in. add, stir in, combine, fold in: Mix in the chocolate at the very end. 4 mix up. a See mix, 1, above. b confuse, confound, bewilder, muddle, perplex, puzzle, fluster, upset; addle, disturb; Colloq US and Canadian discombobulate: She mixed me up so that I cannot decide what to do. c snarl, ensnarl, tangle, entangle, scramble, jumble: The treasures were all mixed up with the rubbish at the church sale. d confuse, interchange, exchange: Have they mixed up our room keys again? 5 mix up in. involve, implicate, include, connect, draw or drag into: Wasn't Wilcox mixed up in that scandal last year? 6 mix up with. confuse, mistake, misidentify, confound; interchange, exchange: I think you must have me mixed up with somebody else. The porter mixed up my bag with someone else's. --n. 7 mixture, blend, compound; amalgam, combination, alloy, assortment, distribution: Was this cake made from a mix or from scratch? The centre party has a good mix of liberals and conservatives.
mixture n. 1 assortment, amalgam, amalgamation, medley, combination, mingling, intermingling, composite, blend, jumble, mix, miscellany, mlange, mess, mishmash, hotchpotch or US and Canadian hodgepodge, gallimaufry, farrago, olio, olla podrida, hash, pot-pourri, ragout, goulash, omnium gatherum, salmagundi: The design is an unfortunate mixture of many incompatible styles. 2 mixing, amalgamation, amalgamating, combining, mingling, intermingling, combination, blend, blending, association, associating, compound, compounding, synthesis, interweaving, merging, merger, fusion, fusing, alloy, alloying: The mixture of household ammonia and bleach creates noxious fumes.
moan n. 1 complaint, lament, lamentation, groan, wail, moaning, grievance: Disregard his moans about money - he has plenty. --v. 2 complain, lament, groan, wail, bewail, grumble, bemoan, deplore, whine, whimper, Colloq grouse, gripe, beef, bitch, Brit whinge: She's always moaning about the way people take advantage of her. 3 sigh, mourn, weep, sorrow, cry, wail, keen, grieve, sob, snivel, bawl, mewl, pule, ululate: The women, all in black, moaned and tore their hair as they neared the coffin.
mobbed adj. crowded, packed, thronged, congested, teeming, swarming, full, filled: They tried to leave by the emergency exit, but that was mobbed, too.
mobilize v. assemble, marshal, conscript, enrol, enlist, organize, muster, levy, rally, activate, call up, prepare, ready, US draft: A huge army was mobilized, virtually overnight. mock v. 1 deride, ridicule, make fun of, tease, taunt, tantalize, jeer (at), gibe (at), thumb one's nose at, chaff, laugh at, poke fun at, make sport of, guy, scorn, flout, abuse, defy, scoff (at), sneer (at), disdain, disparage, decry, Archaic fleer (at), Colloq rag, rib, kid, put (someone) on, Brit take the mickey out of, cock a snook at: He was taken in for questioning only because he mocked a police officer. Jealousy is the green-eyed monster that mocks the meat it feeds on. 2 ape, mimic, imitate, caricature, lampoon, satirize, parody, burlesque, travesty, Colloq spoof, take off, Brit send up: The political cartoonist mocks governments daily on the pillory of his pen. --adj. 3 substitute, artificial, simulated, fake, synthetic, imitation, false, forged, ersatz, sham, feigned, counterfeit, fraudulent, bogus, make-believe, pretend, Colloq phoney or US also phony, pseudo: By means of a mock car accident they demonstrated how to rescue victims. Mock turtle soup, though good, does not taste like real turtle soup.
mode n. 1 way, manner, method, approach, form, course, fashion, procedure, technique, system, wise, modus operandi, methodology, standard operating procedure, SOP: What mode of teaching foreign languages do you use? 2 status, condition, state, configuration, set-up: The computer is now in printing mode.
model n. 1 representation, replica, mock-up, maquette, scale model, working model, miniature, dummy, image, likeness, facsimile, copy: This is a model of the house he is planning. 2 original, mould, archetype, prototype, pattern, paragon, ideal, exemplar, example, standard: When the wax model is finished, we cast it in bronze using the cire perdue process. Their government was established after the Roman model. 3 ideal, paragon, exemplar, epitome, beau idal, cream, crme de la crme, ne plus ultra, nonpareil, nonsuch or nonesuch: He is the very model of what a father should be. 4 subject, sitter, poser: Dali's wife served as his model for many paintings. 5 mannequin; dummy: She is tall and thin enough to be a fashion model. May I see the hat that is on that model in the window? 6 design, kind, type, style, version; variety, sort, form, fashion, configuration; brand, mark: I'm intending to trade my car in for a newer model. --v. 7 fashion, mould, shape, form, sculpt, carve (out), make, fabricate, produce: She modelled these figures out of fine clay. 8 pose in, display, show (off), wear, Colloq sport: She makes a fortune modelling swimwear. 9 model after or on. imitate, copy, pattern on or after, emulate, follow: Architects often used to model public buildings after the temples on the Acropolis. --adj. 10 copy, imitation, facsimile, representative, miniature: He enjoys building model aeroplanes. 11 ideal, exemplary, perfect, archetypal, unequalled, consummate, inimitable: Oliver has been a model student.
moderately adv. somewhat, rather, quite, fairly, pretty, comparatively, slightly, passably, more or less; to some extent, within reason, to a certain extent, to a degree, to some degree, in some measure, in moderation, within limits; temperately; Colloq sort of, kind of: Clifford is moderately well off. It was a moderately hot day.
modern adj. up to date, current, contemporary, today's, new, fresh, novel, brand-new, up to the minute, present-day, latest, new-fashioned, newfangled; la mode, modish, in vogue, fashionable, in fashion, stylish, in style, chic, Chiefly Brit flavour of the month, Slang trendy, in, with it, mod, hip, hot: Elaine has little patience with modern electronic gadgets.
modest adj. 1 unassuming, unpresuming, humble, unpretentious, unobtrusive, reserved, retiring, diffident, shy, bashful, demure, coy, shame-faced, self-effacing, self-conscious, reticent, reluctant, timid, meek, timorous, Rare verecund: Caroline is quite modest about her accomplishments. 2 humble, simple, plain, ordinary, unpretentious, homely, lowly, unexceptional, unostentatious; inconspicuous, unobtrusive: They live in a modest little cottage. 3 moderate, limited, understated, unimportunate, unexaggerated, reasonable, sensible, constrained, restricted, restrained: The workers' demands seem modest enough.
modify v. 1 adjust, adapt, change, transform, alter, revise, amend, redo, remake, remould, reshape, reconstruct, reform, revamp, refashion, remodel, rework, reword, reorient, reorganize: They are modifying the car to increase its performance. He should modify his views on censorship. 2 reduce, decrease, diminish, lessen, moderate, temper, soften, lower, abate, tone down, modulate; qualify, limit, restrict: The severity of the winter is modified by our proximity to the sea. We shall have to modify our demands.
mogul n. magnate, tycoon, baron, mandarin, Colloq big shot, big gun, big cheese, Pooh Bah, bigwig, big wheel, big (White) Chief, big Daddy, hotshot, VIP, big noise, nabob, Slang US Mr Big: In the old days, he was one of the moguls in Hollywood.
molest v. 1 annoy, irritate, vex, disturb, pester, badger, needle, provoke, nettle, tease, harass, harry, worry, hector, irk, bother, gall, chafe, roil, torment, plague, beleaguer: For weeks people on the beach have been molested by green flies. 2 accost, meddle with, interfere with, annoy, abuse, bother, attack, ill-treat, maltreat, manhandle; paw: The police are looking for a man who has been molesting girls in the park. moment n. 1 instant, second, minute, half a second, two seconds, flash, twinkling, blink or wink of an eye, twinkling of an eye, trice, Colloq jiffy, shake, two shakes (of a lamb's tail), before you can say 'Jack Robinson', Brit mo, half a mo, tick: I'll be with you in a moment, Madam. 2 instant, time, second, minute, hour, point (in time), juncture, stage: At that very moment, the phone rang. 3 importance, weight, consequence, significance, import, gravity, seriousness, prominence, concern, note, interest, consideration: What you decide to do is of no great moment.
momentous adj. important, weighty, consequential, significant, grave, serious, decisive, crucial, critical, vital, pivotal, portentous, charged, laden, fraught, of concern: The Augustan Age was a momentous period in Latin literature.
monarch n. 1 ruler, sovereign, potentate, crowned head; queen, king, empress, emperor, tsar or czar: Mary was the monarch of Scotland from 1542 to 1567. 2 ruler, sovereign, chief, lord, master, owner, Colloq boss: He is monarch of all he surveys.
monastery n. abbey, cloister, priory, friary, charterhouse, hospice, Buddhism vihara, Hinduism ashram, Tibetan Buddhism lamasery: In later life he retired to a monastery to contemplate the world.
money n. 1 currency, legal tender, medium of exchange, specie, (hard) cash, ready money, banknotes, paper money, Brit notes, US bills, coin(s), change, small change, Derogatory (filthy) lucre, pelf, Colloq shekels, Brit lolly, readies, US folding money, cold (hard) cash, US and Canadian and Australian shin-plasters; Slang loot, dough, bread, spondulicks or spondulix, boodle, readies or the ready, moolah, Brit rhino, US (long) green, greenbacks, mazuma, wampum, simoleons, bucks, scratch, gelt, kale, cabbage, lettuce, spinach: He makes daily rounds to collect the money from the launderettes he owns. 2 resources, wealth, fortune, funds, capital, wherewithal, affluence, means, (liquid) assets, riches; Slang bundle: All the family money is invested in long-term bonds. 3 gain, profit, net, Colloq take, percentage, Slang rake-off: How much money does the shop take in at the end of the day? 4 in the money. rich, wealthy, affluent, moneyed or monied, well off, well-to-do, prosperous, Colloq flush, in clover, in or on Easy Street, Slang loaded, well-heeled, rolling in it or in money or in dough, filthy rich, stinking rich, fat: They have been in the money since their uncle died.
monitor n. 1 watchdog, supervisor, sentinel, guard, guardian, custodian; Brit invigilator, prefect, Rare prepositor or praepostor; US proctor: The government has appointed a committee to monitor oil prices. 2 (television) screen, cathode-ray tube screen, CRT, display, Chiefly Brit visual display unit, VDU: Do you prefer an amber, green, or black-and-white monitor? --v. 3 watch, oversee, observe, check (out or up on), audit, supervise, superintend, scan, examine, study, follow, keep an eye on, survey, keep track of, track, trace, record, Brit vet: Before a drug is approved, it must be monitored through thousands of tests.
monkey n. 1 simian, ape, primate, Colloq monk: The monkeys' antics forever delight the children. 2 fool, ass, laughing-stock, butt, victim, target, (fair) game, Colloq goat, Slang sucker: The teacher should not have made a monkey out of Hubert in front of his classmates. 3 imp, devil, mischief-maker, rascal, scamp, rapscallion: She's a real little monkey: you wouldn't believe what she got up to this morning. --v. 4 mimic, mime, imitate, impersonate, copy, ape, duplicate: He monkeys everything you do. 5 Usually, monkey around or about (with). fool around (with), play (with), fiddle (about or around) with, meddle (with or in), interfere (with or in), mess (about or around) (with), tinker (with), tamper (with), Colloq US screw around (with): Stop monkeying around with that switch or the light will fuse. Colin is always monkeying around in class.
monolithic adj. massive, huge, enormous, monumental, imposing, colossal, gigantic, giant; featureless, uniform, undifferentiated, characterless; rigid, impenetrable, invulnerable, unbending, inflexible, solid, stolid, intractable, immovable: These monolithic international conglomerates, assembled with the aid of junk bonds, staffed by yuppies, and controlling markets worth hundreds of billions, resemble the monolithic glass towers that house them.
monotonous adj. boring, tedious, dull, tiresome, humdrum, sleep-inducing, soporific, wearisome, wearying, tiring, monotonic, repetitious, prosaic, banal, dry, dry-as-dust, uninteresting, dreary, colourless, unexciting, run-of-the-mill, ordinary, commonplace, routine, uneventful, everyday, mechanical, banausic, Colloq ho-hum: Working in an assembly line became monotonous, so I took a job in advertising.
monstrosity n. 1 See monster, 2, above. 2 monstrousness, heinousness, horribleness, horridness, hideousness, awfulness, nightmarishness, dreadfulness, frightfulness, horror, hellishness, ghoulishness, fiendishness, barbarity: The monstrosity of the concentration camps was not widely known till after the war.
monument n. 1 marker, cairn, memorial, tablet, shrine, commemoration; sepulchre, gravestone, tombstone, headstone, tomb, mausoleum, cenotaph: Many monuments have been established in memory of those who died in the war. 2 testimony, testimonial, testament, token, witness, record, evidence, example, exemplar: The book will survive as a lasting monument to her scholarship.
mood n. 1 humour, attitude, inclination, disposition, nature, temper, frame of mind, spirit, atmosphere, sense, feeling: The mood of the people is rebellious. She's in a bad mood. 2 in the mood. ready, willing, eager, keen, (well-)disposed, inclined, sympathetic, minded: I'm not in the mood for a film tonight, but I am in the mood to go dancing.
moonshine n. 1 moonlight, moonbeams: Her hair reflected silver in the moonshine. 2 (stuff and) nonsense, rubbish, taradiddle, humbug, drivel, twaddle, balderdash, blather or blether, Colloq hot air, claptrap, pack of lies, con, bosh, gas, eyewash, hogwash, bunk, guff, piffle, hokum, rot, malarkey, bilge (water), tripe, (the old) song and dance, line, Brit tommy-rot, US apple-sauce, razzmatazz, jive, Slang crap, bull, hooey, Brit tosh, US garbage, BS, Taboo slang horseshit, bullshit: He fed her a load of moonshine about owning a big yacht. 3 poteen, Colloq chiefly US and Canadian hooch or hootch, white lightning, white mule, home-brew, bootleg: Government agents raided a still that produced 100 gallons of moonshine a day.
moor v. secure, tie up, make fast, dock, berth, (drop) anchor; fix: The vessel was soon moored and the passengers disembarked. The huge aerial is moored by cables.
moral adj. 1 ethical; right, good, pure, honest, proper, upright, honourable, decent, moralistic, respectable, high-minded, virtuous, upstanding, righteous, principled, scrupulous, incorruptible, noble, just: She is one of the most moral people I have ever met. 2 ethical, moralizing, moralistic: Questions of right and wrong are a subject for moral philosophy. It is a moral, not a legal, issue. --n. 3 lesson, homily, teaching, point, message; aphorism, maxim, precept, apophthegm or apothegm, adage, saw, proverb, epigram, motto, slogan: The moral of the story is, 'Do unto others before they do unto you'. 4 morals. behaviour, conduct, mores, belief, habit(s), custom(s), practice(s), principle(s), scruples, ethics, ideals, standards; probity, morality, rectitude, integrity: For this appointment, we require a person of the highest morals.
morality n. 1 ethics, morals, ethicalness, moralness, principle(s), mores, integrity, propriety, standards, ideals; honesty, right, rightness, righteousness, rectitude, justice, fair play, fairness, decency, uprightness, integrity: Morality should not be conditioned by expediency. 2 behaviour, conduct, habit(s), custom(s): Are you suggesting that utilitarianism is a guide for morality?
moratorium n. halt, hiatus, suspension, stay, respite, freeze, delay, waiting-period, postponement: The arts commission requests a six-month moratorium on sales to foreign purchasers.
moreover adv. furthermore, further, besides, not only that, more than that, what is more; to boot, into the bargain, in addition, additionally, as well, too: She was pleased that I had brought some wine - it was, moreover, her favourite burgundy.
morning n. 1 forenoon, am, dawn, daybreak, sunrise, Literary morn, Archaic cock crow, day-spring, morrow, Chiefly US sun-up: The meeting will be at nine o'clock in the morning. --adj. 2 matutinal, matinal, am, forenoon: I prefer a morning meeting.
mortal adj. 1 human; transitory, temporal, transient, ephemeral: It finally dawned on him that the king was mortal, like other men. 2 physical, bodily, corporeal, corporal, fleshly, earthly, worldly, perishable: Her mortal remains are buried at Bognor Regis. 3 deadly, fatal, lethal, terminal, destructive, disastrous: The admiral lay dying from a mortal wound. 4 relentless, implacable, unrelenting, bitter, sworn, deadly, unremitting, unappeasable, unceasing: Halifax was the mortal enemy of despotism. 5 abject, extreme, awful, great, enormous, intense, terrible, inordinate, dire: Giles lived in mortal fear of offending his mother. --n. 6 human (being), man, woman, person, soul, individual, creature, earthling: The novel depicts a lifestyle far removed from that of ordinary mortals. We mortals have nothing to fear from intergalactic aliens.
mother n. 1 dam, materfamilias, (female) parent, Old-fashioned or formal or jocular mater, Formal progenitrix; matriarch, Colloq ma, old lady, old woman, Brit mummy, mum, US mom, mommy, mama, mamma, maw, mammy, mam: He runs crying to his mother whenever anyone teases him. 2 source, origin, genesis: Necessity is the mother of invention. 3 nourisher, nurturer, nurse: Poverty was the mother of anarchy. --adj. 4 native, natural, innate: She has the mother wit to know better. --v. 5 nurture, nourish, nurse, care for, look after, protect, shelter, watch over, take care of: She mothered me when I needed her, and I won't desert her now. 6 pamper, baby, coddle, spoil, indulge, fuss over, overprotect: You mother the child too much.
motion n. 1 movement, moving, change, shift, shifting, action, going, travelling, travel, progress, passage, transit; activity, commotion, stir, agitation, turmoil, turbulence: One could barely sense the slow motion of the train. The leaves of the aspen appear to be in constant motion. 2 mobility, movability, motility: I could feel the motion gradually returning to my numbed limbs. 3 gait, bearing, carriage, tread, walk, step: The machine works with alternate upward and downward motions. 4 gesture, gesticulation, signal, sign: She made a motion for me to come nearer. 5 proposal, suggestion, proposition, recommendation, offering, submission: A motion must be seconded by a member in good standing. --v. 6 gesture, gesticulate, beckon, signal, sign, wave: The cashier motioned to me and I went over to the window.
motive n. 1 inducement, incentive, motivation, stimulus, motivating force, stimulation, incitement, influence, cause, reason, rationale, grounds; attraction, lure, enticement, goad, spur, urge, prod: It is thought that jealousy was his motive for murder. 2 purpose, aim, intention, intent, object, objective, goal, end, arrire pense (= 'hidden motive'); ambition, desire; Colloq angle: I asked the chairman what his motive was in trying to expand the company. --adj. 3 driving, impelling, propelling, propulsive, moving, kinetic, activating, operative: The motive power used in the ultra-light aircraft is provided entirely by the pilot's pedalling.
motto n. maxim, proverb, saying, adage, saw, aphorism, apophthegm or apothegm, gnome, slogan, byword, catchword, battle-cry, guide, moral, principle, rule, precept: The motto of the Order of the Garter is Honi soit qui mal y pense, 'Shame on whoever thinks ill of it'.
mould n. mildew, fungus, blight, smut: A mild solution of bleach will clean that mould off the bathroom tiles.
mouldy adj. aged, ancient, outdated, old-fashioned, antediluvian, unused, stale, decayed, decaying, carious, mildewed, mouldering, musty; spoilt or spoiled, rotten, rotting, putrid, putrescent, putrefying, rancid, rank, decomposed, decomposing, mucid: Digging about in the files, he unearthed some mouldy old plans of the house. All the food in the fridge had gone mouldy while they were away.
mount n. 1 See mountain, 1, below. --v. 2 climb (up), go up, ascend, scale, clamber up, make one's way up: We mounted the ladder to the roof. The speaker mounted the dais. 3 rise (up), arise, soar, fly (up), rocket (upwards): With the salmon in its grasp, the eagle mounted to the sky. 4 climb or get or clamber up on, bestride, straddle, bestraddle: The gunfighter mounted his horse and rode off. 5 (put on) display, (put on) exhibit, put on exhibition, present, install or instal, stage, prepare, ready, put on, put in place, set up; arrange, coordinate, compose, organize, set in motion, launch: The gallery will mount a show of John's sculpture next spring. They have mounted a major advertising campaign for their face cream. 6 frame, mat or matt, set off: This print should be mounted using an olive green paper. 7 increase, wax, rise, escalate, intensify, swell, expand, grow, mount up, multiply, pile up, build up, accumulate: Complaints have been mounting against the vulgar language heard on prime-time TV. --n. 8 backing, setting, support, mounting, background, set, arrangement, backdrop, scene: This style of mount sets off the ruby to its best advantage. 9 horse, steed, charger, palfrey: Her mount was a grey mare.
mountainous adj. 1 craggy, alpine, Himalayan: It was very slow going through the mountainous parts of the country. 2 huge, towering, high, steep, enormous, immense, formidable, mighty, monumental, prodigious, staggering: Their tiny craft was almost engulfed by the mountainous seas.
mournful adj. 1 sad, sorrowful, dismal, melancholy, blue, afflicted, doleful, dolorous, grief-stricken, rueful, forlorn, woebegone, sombre, lugubrious, funereal, joyless, dispirited, cheerless, unhappy, downhearted, heavy-hearted, disconsolate, heartbroken, inconsolable, despondent, desolate, despairing, heartsick, overcome, prostrate: The mournful crowd filed past the bier to pay their last respects. 2 deplorable, sorrowful, grievous, distressing, upsetting, tragic, saddening, disheartening, depressing, lamentable, catastrophic, calamitous, disastrous: The mournful news of the great loss of life in the explosion was broadcast round the world.
mousy adj. 1 mousey, mouse-coloured, dun, grey, greyish-brown, brownish-grey, brownish, brown, dull, lustreless, lacklustre, drab, flat, plain, colourless: Her lank, mousy hair hung down over her shoulders. 2 timid, cowering, timorous, shy, self-effacing, diffident: Adrian is far too mousy to ask for an increase in salary.
mouthful n. morsel, bite, spoonful, forkful, lump, chunk, gob, hunk: He took a mouthful of food.
movable adj. moveable, floating, variable, changeable, unfixed; portable, transportable, transferable or transferrable: Easter Sunday is a movable feast and has no fixed date on the calendar. Recent developments have produced computers that are smaller than an attach case and easily movable.
movement n. 1 repositioning, move, motion, relocation, moving, migration, shift, transfer, flow, displacement: Population movement increased dramatically in the Middle Ages. 2 action, activity, move, moving, stir, stirring: There was a sudden movement in the bushes. 3 gesture, gesticulation, move, flicker, sign, signal; manoeuvre, change of attitude or position: Only the slightest upward movement of his eyebrow indicated his surprise. Every little movement has a meaning all its own. 4 mechanism, works, workings, moving parts, machinery, action, gears, Colloq innards: Technically, the movement of a watch does not include the escapement. 5 campaign, crusade, drive; front, faction, party, group, wing: The 1960s saw many successes for the civil rights' movement in America. 6 change, activity, action, shift, advance or decline, increase or decrease, upward or downward movement, stirring; development, progress: Shares displayed little movement in today's trading. 7 drift, trend, tendency, course, swing: They have noted a growing movement towards religious fundamentalism.
moving adj. 1 touching, poignant, emotive, affecting, stirring, heart-rending, emotional, telling, effective, impressive, striking, compelling; pathetic, exciting, thrilling, inspiring, inspirational, impelling, persuasive: He related a moving story of his years in various concentration camps. 2 active, mobile, unfixed, unstationary, motile, going, operating, working, in motion, on the move: Be careful not to touch any of the moving parts inside the clock.
muck n. 1 ordure, manure, dung, excrement, faeces, droppings; guano: The muck is saved for use as fertilizer. 2 dirt, filth, bilge, slime, sludge, ooze, scum, sewage, mire, mud, feculence, Colloq gunge, gunk, US grunge: Give me a chance to get the muck off my shoes. --v. 3 muck about. fool around, waste time, idle, loiter, mess around or about: She told me to stop mucking about and get a job. 4 muck up. ruin, wreck, destroy, make a mess of, botch, mess up, bungle, Colloq screw up, Slang bugger up, make a muck of: She's mucked up her own life, and, given the chance, she'll muck up mine.
muddle v. 1 bewilder, confuse, confound, mystify, baffle, mix up, disorient, befuddle, perplex, bemuse, puzzle, befog: I am totally muddled by your explanation of differential calculus. 2 confuse, mix up, jumble, scramble, entangle, tangle, mess up, disorder, disarrange, disorganize, bungle, mismanage, Colloq muff: My financial affairs got hopelessly muddled when I changed banks. 3 muddle through. (barely) manage, cope, make it, scrape through or along, contrive, make do, get by, get along: We were just muddling through when James was offered this wonderful job. --n. 4 mess, confusion, mix-up, jumble, tangle, disorder, hotchpotch or US also hodgepodge, mishmash, chaos, disaster, Colloq stew, Slang US screw-up, snafu, Taboo slang Brit balls-up: A lot of muddles, mix-ups, and misunderstandings ensued.
muffle v. 1 Often, muffle up. wrap, swathe, swaddle, cloak, envelop, cover (up), enfold, shroud, enshroud, conceal, protect: Make sure your neck is muffled when you're out in that icy wind. 2 deaden, silence, suppress, stifle, subdue, damp, dampen, mute, hush, quiet, tone down, still: A few more thicknesses of flannel will muffle the noise of the motor.
mug n. 1 jug, tankard, stein, toby (jug), pot, beaker, cup: The relief workers passed round mugs of hot coffee to the homeless. 2 face, visage, features, countenance, Slang puss, kisser, mush, Brit clock, dial, Archaic phiz or phizog, US pan: The ex-boxer has a mug that only a mother could love. 3 fool, duffer, simpleton, dupe, gull, innocent, Colloq chump, mark, soft or easy touch, Brit muggins, Slang sucker: The mug thought he had found a full wallet. --v. 4 make a face or faces, grimace: Here are some pictures of the twins mugging for the camera. 5 attack, set upon, rob, assault; garrotte, throttle: Anyone who walks through the park at night risks getting mugged. 6 mug up (on). study, Formal lucubrate, Colloq cram, burn the midnight oil, get up (on), Brit swot, bone up (on): I have to mug up on my Latin for tomorrow's examination.
mull v. Usually, mull over. ponder, consider, study, think (over or about), cogitate (on or over or about), con, evaluate, turn over, weigh, deliberate (on or over), reflect (on), muse (on), review, examine, contemplate, meditate (on), chew over, ruminate (on or over),: I have been mulling over your suggestion that I should join the navy.
mumble v. murmur, mutter, say inarticulately, utter indistinctly, swallow one's words: He mumbled the name of the person who had shot him, but she didn't catch it.
munch v. chew, crunch, masticate, champ, chomp, scrunch: He just sat there munching peanuts.
municipality n. city, metropolis, town, village, borough, district, township; suburb, exurb: The recreational facilities offered by the municipality are in need of refurbishing.
murderer n. murderess, killer, slayer, assassin, homicide, cutthroat, liquidator, executioner, butcher, Slang hit man: The police have arrested someone they are certain is the murderer.
murky adj. dark, gloomy, threatening, dim, clouded, cloudy, overcast, grey, dismal, dreary, bleak, sombre, grim, funereal, shady, shadowy: I could barely make out her face in the murky corner of the chapel.
muscular adj. sinewy, brawny, burly, powerful, powerfully built, strapping, rugged, husky, robust, athletic, sturdy, well-muscled, broad-shouldered: We all envied Nick's muscular physique.
mushy adj. 1 soft, pulpy, squashy, doughy, squidgy, spongy; swampy, boggy, miry; Colloq squishy, squushy, squashy: The peach was overripe and mushy. The bottom of the pond is all mushy and feels awful when you stand up. 2 mawkish, maudlin, sentimental, romantic, saccharine, sugary, syrupy, Colloq corny, sloppy, gooey, slushy, Brit wet, Slang schmaltzy: She cried three handkerchiefs-full over the mushy parts of Gone With The Wind .
must v. 1 ought (to), should, have to, be obliged or obligated to, be compelled or forced to, be required to: I must get this work done before lunch-time. Must you go? Yes, I must. --n. 2 necessity, requisite, requirement, obligation, sine qua non, essential: Patience is an absolute must in this job.
musty adj. 1 mouldy, damp, mildewed, mildewy, sour, rancid, spoilt, decayed, rotten, putrid, fetid or foetid, fusty, stale: Open the windows to get rid of that musty odour. 2 stale, old-fashioned, antiquated, antediluvian, ancient, out of date, bygone, pass, old hat, obsolete, archaic, tired, hoary, worn out, trite, clichd, stereotypical: I've heard all those musty jokes of his a thousand times before.
mute adj. 1 silent, dumb, speechless, voiceless, wordless, tight-lipped, taciturn, tacit, reserved, quiet, Colloq mum: Though I persisted in asking his name, he remained mute. 2 unspoken, unsaid, tacit, silent: The stain on the floor was a mute reminder of the crime. --v. 3 deaden, silence, muffle, stifle, dampen, damp, subdue, suppress, quiet or Brit also quieten, hush, soft-pedal, turn down, tone down: The carpet muted her footsteps as she crept up behind him.
mutinous adj. 1 rebellious, revolutionary, subversive, seditious, insurgent, insurrectionary: The mutinous crew was finally subdued and clapped in irons. 2 recalcitrant, refractory, contumacious, obstinate, defiant, insubordinate, disobedient, unruly, unmanageable, ungovernable, uncontrollable: Whenever we told Clare to work harder at school she became mutinous.
mutter v. 1 mumble, murmur, grunt: He was muttering something to himself that I didn't catch. 2 grumble, complain, Colloq grouch, grouse, Brit chunter: She has been muttering about cuts in the postal service ever since I can remember.
mysterious adj. 1 puzzling, enigmatic, baffling, insoluble, unsolvable, bewildering, confounding, confusing, perplexing, mystifying, weird, bizarre, strange, uncanny, curious: A mysterious force makes the saucer rise off the ground and fly at incredible speeds. 2 cryptic, arcane, secret, inscrutable, covert, hidden, furtive, unclear, dark, concealed, occult, inexplicable, incomprehensible, mystic(al), unknown, unfathomable, mystical, recondite, abstruse: It is mysterious how the agency accomplishes its ends.
mystical adj. 1 allegorical, symbolic(al), mystic, cabbalistic, arcane, unrevealed, secret, occult, supernatural, esoteric, other-worldly, preternatural, cryptic, concealed, hidden, clandestine, private, veiled, ineffable, mysterious: A mystical spirit dwells in the raven that sits on his shoulder. 2 See mysterious, 2, above.
mystique n. mystery, magic, charisma, aura, inscrutability, supernaturalism, preternaturalism, strangeness: She has a certain mystique about her.
mythical adj. 1 mythic, mythological, fabled, legendary, traditional, folkloric, storied, romantic, fairy-tale, story-book; allegorical, symbolic, parabolic(al): Campbell has demonstrated astounding similarities amongst the mythical tales of unrelated cultures. 2 mythic, fanciful, imaginary, fictitious, make-believe, made-up, chimerical, untrue: When she was about seven, my daughter had a mythical friend named Theodosia.
nag v. 1 Sometimes, nag at. annoy, irritate, irk, pester, criticize, ride, scold, carp (at), upbraid, badger, harass, harry, vex, henpeck, torment, hector, pick at, goad, pick on, find fault with, berate, nettle, bully, provoke, plague, worry, bother, Brit chivvy or chivy or chevy, Colloq needle: He nags her day and night about going on a diet. --n. 2 scold, harpy, pest, shrew, virago, termagant, fishwife: You certainly can be a terrible nag, can't you?
nagging adj. distressing, chronic, continuous, continual, persistent, unrelenting, relentless, recurring: He complains of a nagging pain in his shoulder. I have a nagging feeling that I have an appointment to be somewhere.
nave adj. naive or naf, ingenuous, innocent, credulous, childlike, born yesterday, unaffected, unsophisticated, inexperienced, green, unworldly, unsuspecting, unenlightened, unsuspicious, trusting, trustful, gullible, artless, guileless, simple, simplistic, simple-minded, unpretentious, unpretending, candid, natural: Is Chatterley nave enough to believe that the gamekeeper's meetings with his wife were to discuss fox-hunting?
naked adj. 1 stark naked, unclothed, undraped, bare, exposed, stripped, undressed, unclad, uncovered, bared, nude, in the nude, Colloq in the altogether, in one's birthday suit, in the buff, in the raw, au naturel, in a state of nature, Brit starkers, in the nuddy: The two of them stood there, completely naked. 2 unaided, unassisted: Stars of the seventh magnitude or brighter are visible to the naked eye. 3 plain, unadorned, unembellished, stark, overt, patent, obvious, conspicuous, manifest, sheer, undisguised, unvarnished, unmitigated, evident, palpable, unconcealed, in plain sight or view, blatant, barefaced, undeniable, glaring, flagrant, unmistakable or unmistakeable, unalloyed, unmixed, blunt, unadulterated, pure: He told her the naked truth about how he felt. 4 unsheathed, unprotected, bare, exposed: How dare he show a naked sword in the presence of the Emperor?!
nameless adj. 1 unnamed, innominate, unidentified, anonymous, pseudonymous, incognito, unknown, unheard-of, unsung: How much we owe the nameless inventor of the wheel! 2 inexpressible, indefinable, unidentifiable, unspecified, unspecifiable: A nameless dread seized him as he entered the cave. 3 ineffable, unutterable, unspeakable, unmentionable, abominable, horrible, indescribable, repulsive: Paganism allowed man to sink beneath a flood of nameless sensualities.
nap v. 1 doze, nod (off), catnap, Colloq catch forty winks, drop off (to sleep), get some shut-eye, snooze, zizz, US catch or log a few zees (Z's): I nap every afternoon. --adv. 2 napping. unawares, off guard, unexpectedly, in an unguarded moment: The ball, hit to his backhand, caught him napping. --n. 3 doze, catnap, siesta, Colloq forty winks, shut-eye, snooze, zizz, Brit lie-down: Take a short nap before dinner.
narcotic adj. 1 soporific, stuporific, hypnotic, sedative, somnolent, sleep-inducing, opiate, dulling, numbing, anaesthetic, stupefacient, stupefying, stupefactive, tranquillizing, Lethean: Most narcotic drugs may be sold only with a doctor's prescription. --n. 2 drug, soporific, stuporific, hypnotic, sedative, opiate, anaesthetic, stupefacient, tranquillizer: Many doctors are reluctant to prescribe narcotics.
narration n. 1 telling, relating, unfolding, recounting, chronicling, recording, describing; report, recital, recitation, rehearsal, relation, chronicle, description, portrayal, detailing, revelation, story, tale, narrative: His narration was accompanied by nervous gestures. Her narration disagrees with her husband's in certain essential respects. 2 reading, voice-over: The narration did not seem to be coordinated with the pictures on the screen.
narrator n. reporter, storyteller, raconteur, taleteller, teller of tales, anecdotist or anecdotalist, relator, annalist, chronicler, describer, author; voice-over: We sat spellbound waiting for the narrator to continue.
narrowly adv. 1 barely, (only) just, scarcely, hardly, by a hair's breadth; by the skin of one's teeth, Colloq by a whisker: The speeding lorry narrowly missed those children. 2 closely, carefully, meticulously, scrupulously, searchingly, critically: She regarded him narrowly before speaking.
nasty adj. 1 foul, filthy, dirty, unclean, offensive, disgusting, nauseating, revolting, horrible, loathsome, repugnant, repellent, vile, odious, obnoxious, objectionable, nauseous, sickening, vomit-provoking, fetid or foetid, noisome, mephitic, rank, malodorous, rancid, noxious: The nasty stench of rotting vegetation assailed our nostrils. 2 unpleasant, disagreeable, unsavoury, painful, objectionable, annoying, untoward, awkward, difficult, bad, serious: Lord Petherbridge had some very nasty experiences in the war. 3 obscene, dirty, pornographic, blue, smutty, lewd, vulgar, sordid, indecent, licentious, gross, coarse, crude, rude, ribald, bawdy, risqu, off colour, suggestive, Colloq X-rated, raunchy: The shops are selling some rather nasty videos that I don't want the children to watch. 4 unpleasant, disagreeable, ugly, bad-tempered, vicious, currish, surly, abusive, spiteful, irascible, ill-natured, ill-tempered, cruel, inconsiderate, rude, churlish, obnoxious, crotchety, curmudgeonly, cantankerous, crabbed, cranky, US and Canadian mean: Why is your father so nasty to everyone who wants to go out with you? 5 bad, severe, acute, painful, serious; dangerous, critical: I got a nasty shock when I opened the cupboard door. That's a nasty wound you have there.
national adj. 1 nationwide, country-wide, state, governmental, civil; public, popular, US federal: It took years to enact national clean-air laws. 2 nationalistic, nationalist, patriotic, jingoistic, chauvinistic: During the war, national feelings ran high. --n. 3 citizen, subject, inhabitant, resident; native: Stephenson left England years ago and is now an Australian national.
nationality n. 1 citizenship: Some countries allow their citizens dual nationality. 2 race, nation, ethnic group, ethnos, clan, tribe; strain, stock, pedigree, heritage, roots, extraction, bloodline, breed: The country became a melting-pot of myriad nationalities.
natural adj. 1 ordinary, common, commonplace, normal, standard, regular, usual, customary, unexceptional, routine, habitual, typical, everyday; reasonable, logical, reasonable, sensible, accepted: They say that Count Dracula could not die a natural death. The natural thing to do in case of attack is to defend oneself. 2 normal, ordinary, regular, expected; spontaneous: The natural motion of the waves carried the bottle out to sea. 3 simple, basic, fundamental, real, unartificial, genuine, unembellished, unadorned, unpretentious: She has great natural beauty and needs no cosmetics. 4 unstudied, unconstrained, candid, frank, spontaneous, unaffected, easy, honest, straight, straightforward, artless, guileless, impulsive, unpremeditated, unaffected, ingenuous, unsophisticated, unsophistic(al): His kindness is quite natural. 5 See native, 1, above: She has a natural gift for painting. 6 true, real, genuine, actual, authentic, bona fide: That, believe it or not, is his natural hair. 7 lifelike, true to life, realistic: Note the natural colours of the sea in this painting by Whistler. 8 illegitimate, bastard: He was the duke's natural son and had no claim on the estate. 9 consistent, consonant, consequent, logical, reasonable, fitting, appropriate, proper, expected, not incongruous, understandable: In the circumstances, it would have been natural for her to despise Jonathan. 10 organic, organically grown, non-chemical, health: They eat only natural foods, which they grow themselves. --n. 11 genius, artist, talent: When it comes to chess, Boris is a natural. 12 Archaic idiot, imbecile, simpleton, fool, halfwit: One would have to be a natural to give money to that crook.
nature n. 1 quality, properties, features, character, personality, make-up, essence, constitution, identity, attributes, disposition, temperament, complexion: Only detailed analysis will reveal the nature of this compound. It is not in his nature to be envious. 2 universe, cosmos, world, creation, environment: Science fiction deals with phenomena and contrivances that defy the laws of nature. 3 scenery, countryside, wildness, primitiveness, simplicity: I often enjoyed sitting by the river, communing with nature. 4 kind, variety, description, sort, class, category, type, genre, species; stamp, cast, mould, feather, kidney, colour, stripe: The duties of the position are largely of a ceremonial nature. 5 by nature. See naturally, 2, above.
naughty adj. 1 mischievous, impish, puckish, roguish, scampish, devilish; frolicsome, playful: The children would get naughty the minute the teacher turned her back to the class. 2 disobedient, refractory, insubordinate, bad, perverse, wicked, fractious, unruly, wayward, unmanageable, ungovernable, undisciplined, defiant, obstreperous: Naughty pupils in this school are birched. 3 improper, offensive, vulgar, indecent, immoral, risqu, off colour, ribald, bawdy, blue, pornographic, smutty, lewd, obscene, dirty, Colloq X-rated, raunchy: The teacher caught Keith reading a naughty book.
nauseated adj. sickened, disgusted, repelled, revolted, offended, sick (to one's stomach), queasy, squeamish; seasick, carsick, airsick: They were nauseated when they saw the cadavers. I became nauseated by the rocking of the boat.
nautical adj. maritime, marine, seafaring, seagoing; naval; boating, yachting, sailing; navigational: Britain has always been a nautical nation. One must observe the nautical rules of the road.
navigable adj. 1 passable, traversable, negotiable, unblocked, unobstructed, clear: The Thames is not navigable above Lechlade. 2 manoeuvrable, sailable, controllable, steerable, yare: My boat is navigable when under way at about four knots.
navigation n. pilotage, helmsmanship, seamanship, steersmanship, steering, sailing: The navigation of a small vessel in such a storm is no mean task.
navy n. fleet, flotilla, naval force(s), armada, Literary argosy: The entire navy sailed across the Channel to Le Havre.
nearby adv. 1 close by, close at hand, not far-off or -away, in the vicinity or neighbourhood, within (easy) reach, about, around: Hyenas loitered nearby waiting for the lions to leave the kill. --adj. 2 close, within reach, handy, accessible, at or to hand, adjacent: Nearby villagers helped put out the fire. We always kept a gun nearby because of pirates.
near-sighted adj. 1 myopic, short-sighted: Being near-sighted, I must wear spectacles for driving. 2 Chiefly US short-sighted, narrow-minded, blinkered, narrow, close-minded, illiberal, unthinking, heedless, insular, partial, one-sided, parochial, unsophisticated, unimaginative, biased, unobjective, opinionated, dogmatic, prejudiced, intolerant, bigoted: They maintain a near-sighted attitude towards associating with anyone outside their immediate clique.
neaten v. Often, neaten up. tidy (up), straighten (up or out), clean (up), spruce up, (put in) order, Brit dialect trig: If you don't neaten up your room, Mandy, you may not borrow the car. nebulous adj. vague, hazy, clouded, unclear, obscure, indistinct, fuzzy, muddy, ill-defined, shapeless, amorphous, blurred, indeterminate, murky, opaque, turbid, dim, foggy, faint, pale: He has only the most nebulous idea of what the lecture was about.
necessary adj. 1 indispensable, essential, required, needed, compulsory, requisite, vital, demanded, imperative, obligatory, needful, of the essence, important, of the utmost importance, top-priority, high-priority, urgent, exigent, compelling, life-and-death or life-or-death: A good diet is necessary for good health. It is necessary that you come at once. Take the necessary steps to get the job done. 2 inevitable, unavoidable, inescapable, ineluctable: In the circumstances, we find it necessary to ask for your resignation. 3 sure, certain, predetermined, predestined, fated, inexorable; resulting, resultant: The necessary outcome of the affair was that the child was returned to her natural parents. --n. 4 See necessity, 1, below.
need v. 1 require, demand, want, be in want of, call for, have need of or for; lack, miss, have occasion for: This room needs a coat of paint. Although she may want more money, she doesn't need it. Do you need anything to make you more comfortable? --n. 2 necessity, requirement; call, demand, constraint: There's no need to shout - I can hear you. There is a need to keep this matter confidential. This facility will meet our electricity needs for decades. 3 essential, necessary, requisite, prerequisite, necessity, basic, fundamental, sine qua non, necessary, desideratum: I am perfectly capable of taking care of my family's needs. 4 distress, difficulty, trouble, (dire or desperate) straits, stress, emergency, exigency, extremity, neediness, needfulness; poverty, penury, impecuniousness, destitution, privation, deprivation, indigence, beggary: She was very supportive in his hour of need. The need of the people in that district is heart-rending. 5 want, lack, dearth, shortage, paucity, scarcity, insufficiency, desideratum: The need for medical supplies was most sharply felt in areas that were already ravaged by famine.
needy adj. poor, indigent, poverty-stricken, destitute, impoverished, penniless, impecunious, necessitous, underprivileged, deprived, disadvantaged, below the poverty level, in dire straits, in or on the way to the poorhouse, in reduced circumstances, down-and-out, insolvent, Colloq on one's uppers, dead or flat or stony-broke, hard up, strapped, pinched, on the breadline, up against it, Brit on the dole, US dead broke, on welfare, on relief: It is not enough to look after needy families only at Christmas time.
neglect v. 1 disregard, ignore, slight, pay no attention to, be inattentive to, overlook, pass by, spurn, rebuff, scorn, disdain, contemn, Colloq cold-shoulder: Scholars neglected his work for years. 2 fail (in), omit; disregard, let slide or pass, be remiss (about or in or regarding), abandon, lose sight of, forget, shirk: Have I neglected telling you how much I love you? Sybil has neglected her obligations. --n. 3 disregard, disrespect, inattention, indifference, slighting, unconcern, oversight, heedlessness, neglectfulness, carelessness, inadvertence: We lost business to our competitor through simple neglect. 4 negligence, laxity, laxness, slackness, neglectfulness, passivity, passiveness, inactivity, inaction, dereliction, default, failure, failing, remissness: She has been accused of neglect in looking after her children properly.
negligible adj. insignificant, minor, unimportant, trifling, trivial, inconsequential, piddling, inappreciable, small, slight, paltry, nugatory, worthless, petty, niggling, not worth mentioning or talking about: The differences between the two plans are negligible.
negotiation n. 1 discussion, mediation, arbitration, bargaining, parley, parleying, talk, coming to terms: The disarmament negotiations have dragged on for years. 2 deal, bargain, transaction, agreement, arrangement, understanding, determination, decision, settlement; contract, pact, compact, covenant, concordat, treaty: All parties seem pleased with the final negotiation.
neighbourhood n. 1 locality, area, region, vicinity, vicinage, environs, quarter, district, precinct(s), purlieus, locale; surroundings, confines: Houses in the neighbourhood of the blast were levelled. 2 in the neighbourhood of. approximately, about, around, nearly, practically, close to, almost, more or less, Colloq in the ballpark of, in the region of, Brit getting on for, not far off, US within an eyelash of, Slang as near as dammit to: The playground will cost in the neighbourhood of 5,000.
neighbourly adj. friendly, cordial, warm, amiable, agreeable, affable, companionable, well-disposed, kindly, kind, well-wishing, genial, sociable, social, harmonious, considerate, thoughtful, helpful, gracious, courteous, civil: It was quite neighbourly of the Constables to look after our cat.
nerve n. 1 courage, coolness, boldness, bravery, intrepidity, determination, valour, daring, fearlessness, dauntlessness, pluck, mettle, spirit, fortitude, will, tenacity, steadfastness, staunchness, firmness, doughtiness, resoluteness, Colloq guts, grit, gumption, spunk, US sand, Brit bottle, US moxie , Taboo slang balls: It took a lot of nerve to go back into that burning building. 2 effrontery, brazenness, gall, impertinence, brass, impudence, insolence, audacity, brashness, presumption, presumptuousness, temerity, Colloq cheek, sauce, chutzpah, Slang crust: You have a lot of nerve, talking to your mother that way! 3 get on someone's nerves. annoy, irritate, upset: That loud rock music gets on my nerves. 4 nerves. tension, nervousness, hysteria, anxiety, fretfulness, stress, worry, apprehension, fright, Colloq the jitters, Slang the willies, the heebie-jeebies, US the whim-whams: I had a bad case of nerves before learning the doctor's diagnosis.
nervous adj. 1 highly-strung, excitable, sensitive, tense, agitated, wrought up, worked up, upset, flustered, ruffled, disturbed, perturbed, distressed, worried, anxious, troubled, concerned, disquieted, edgy, on edge, on tenterhooks, fidgety, fretful, uneasy, apprehensive, frightened, fearful, shaky, scared, skittish, US on a tightrope, Colloq jumpy, jittery, flappable, in a stew, in a dither, in a sweat, in a tizzy, in a flap, uptight, Brit nervy, US on pins and needles, Slang strung out: Thomas is nervous because he has to give a speech. 2 difficult, tense, critical: There were a few nervous moments before we knew if the rope would hold.
nestle v. cuddle (up), snuggle (up), huddle, curl up, nuzzle (up): They nestled close together to keep warm.
net n. 1 nett, (net) profit, gain, earnings, return(s), Colloq US take: The net for the first quarter was 15 per cent higher than last year's. --adj. 2 clear, after deductions, after taxes, take-home, final, bottom-line: The tax increase was greater than my salary increase, so my net income was lower this year. 3 final, end, closing, concluding, conclusive, effective, ultimate: The net result of the advertising campaign was a sales increase of 18 per cent. --v. 4 make, realize, clear, take home, bring in, earn, pocket, take in, get: How much did you net last year - after taxes, that is.
neuter adj. 1 asexual, sexless, epicene: Worker bees are neuter, neither male nor female. --v. 2 desex or desexualize, doctor; castrate, emasculate, geld, capon or caponize, eunuchize; spay, ovariectomize, oophorectomize; Colloq fix, cut, US alter: We had our cat neutered after her first litter.
neutralize v. void, annul, cancel (out), nullify, invalidate, negate, delete, undo, make or render ineffective, counterbalance, counteract, offset, equalize, even, square, compensate for, make up for: The forces on both sides of the sail, being equal, neutralize each other.
nevertheless adv. still, notwithstanding, yet, in spite of that, despite that, nonetheless, regardless, be that as it may, for all that, even so, but, however, just or all the same, everything considered, at any rate, anyway, in any case, in any event, at all events, Literary withal: He said he dislikes sweets; nevertheless, he ate a whole bar of chocolate.
newcomer n. 1 alien, immigrant, foreigner, outlander, stranger, settler, colonist, outsider: The newcomers quickly established themselves and became self-sufficient. 2 beginner, amateur, novice, proselyte, neophyte, tiro or tyro, initiate, trainee, learner, fledgling or Brit also fledgeling, US freshman, Colloq greenhorn: Though experienced in book publishing, he was a newcomer to magazine publishing.
nice adj. 1 pleasant, agreeable, amiable, amicable, friendly, cordial, warm, gracious, warm-hearted, kind, kindly, outgoing, charming, genial, delightful, courteous, polite, refined, gentlemanly, ladylike, winsome, likeable, attractive: They are one of the nicest couples I have ever met. 2 good, satisfactory, commendable, worthy, worthwhile: The manager said that I had done a nice job in preparing the specifications. 3 good, fine, superb, superior, attentive, sharp, acute, keen, careful, exact, exacting, rigorous; precise, accurate, unerring, scrupulous, meticulous, punctilious, discriminating, discriminative, perceptive, delicate, fastidious, flawless, faultless, subtle, strict, close, small, slight, minute, complex, complicated, intricate: A diamond cutter must have a nice eye for detail. It is difficult to maintain nice distinctions of meaning among certain words, given that people are so careless with their speech these days. 4 delicate, subtle, sensitive, exquisite, hair-splitting, over-nice, fine, critical, ticklish, dangerous, precarious, perilous, Colloq hairy: The matter of Hong Kong requires some nice political negotiations. 5 trim, well turned out, tidy, neat, fine: Don't you want to look nice for your birthday party? 6 nice and pleasantly, delightfully, pleasingly, agreeably, enjoyably, gratifyingly, satisfyingly, comfortably: It's nice and warm by the fire.
nick n. 1 cut, notch, chip, gouge, gash, scratch, dent, indentation, flaw, mark, blemish, defect: Be careful of that nick in the rim of the glass. 2 jail or Brit also gaol; police station: The police took him to the nick to help them with their inquiries. --v. 3 steal, purloin, take, appropriate, make off with, Colloq pinch: Who nicked my biro? 4 arrest, nab, take in, Colloq collar: Alan was nicked for possession of marijuana. 5 nick off. depart, go or run off or away, take off, take to one's heels, show a clean pair of heels, beat a (hasty) retreat, Colloq scarper, make tracks, beat it: The cops were coming so I nicked off.
nifty adj. 1 smart, stylish, modish, chic, spruce: I borrowed a nifty outfit from Grandma for the flapper's costume ball. 2 healthy, in good form, spry, energetic, agile, quick: I'm not as nifty as I was in 1950. 3 excellent, neat, great, splendid, fine, clever, skilful, apt, suitable: Having a picnic was a nifty idea. That was as nifty a bit of bargaining as I 've ever seen. 4 satisfactory, satisfying, good, profitable, substantial, considerable: He made a nifty profit on the sale of his house in Chelsea.
niggling adj. 1 irritating, worrying, worrisome, irksome, vexing, vexatious, annoying, troublesome: There are a few niggling matters that I must see my accountant about. 2 petty, nugatory, trifling, trivial, fussy, insignificant, unimportant, inconsequential, frivolous, Colloq piddling, nit-picking, US and Canadian picayune: Bill always ignores the core of a problem and occupies himself with the niggling details.
nightly adj. 1 every night, each night, each and every night, night after night: The watchman does his nightly rounds. 2 night-time, nocturnal, bedtime: A nightly glass of warm milk promotes sound sleep. --adv. 3 every night, each night, nights, after dark, after sunset; nocturnally: The bird sings nightly outside my window.
nil n. nothing, zero, nought or naught, aught or ought, Tennis, table tennis, etc. love, Cricket duck, US goose-egg, Slang US zip: Oxford United: 4; Queens Park Rangers: Nil.
nip v. 1 bite, nibble; pinch, snip, clip, cut, snap, tweak, twitch, trim, lop, crop, shear; grip, squeeze: The dog nipped the postman's ankle. Nip off the suckers to promote healthy growth of the tomatoes. 2 nip in the bud. stop, arrest, check, thwart, frustrate, stymie, forestall; quash, squelch, suppress, extinguish, put down: The revolt of the army officers was nipped in the bud. --n. 3 bite, nibble, morsel, pinch, snip: The deer had taken nips off the tips of the shrubbery. 4 chill, coldness, iciness, sharpness, tang, bite: There's a definite wintry nip in the air tonight.
noble n. 1 nobleman, noblewoman, aristocrat, patrician, lord, lady, peer; gentleman, gentlewoman, Colloq blue blood: The nobles united and forced King John to sign the Magna Carta. --adj. 2 high-born, high-class, upper-class, aristocratic, titled, high-ranking, lordly, patrician, Colloq blue-blood(ed): She came from a noble Austrian family. 3 dignified, eminent, distinguished, august, grand, lofty, elevated, illustrious, prestigious, pre-eminent, noted, honoured, esteemed, celebrated, renowned, acclaimed, respected, venerated: The noble Knights of the Round Table have become legend throughout the world. 4 upright, righteous, honourable, honest, virtuous, incorruptible, chivalrous, staunch, steadfast, true, loyal, faithful, trustworthy, true, principled, moral, good, decent, self-sacrificing, magnanimous, generous: The qualities that make a noble friend make a formidable enemy. 5 splendid, magnificent, imposing, impressive, stately, exquisite, sublime, grand, striking, stunning, superb, admirable, elegant, rich, sumptuous, luxurious: The Taj Mahal is probably one of the noblest works of man.
nod v. 1 greet, acknowledge, recognize: The matre d'htel nodded to me as I entered the restaurant. 2 say yes; consent, assent, agree, concur, acquiesce: Asked if she had seen Nick, the barmaid nodded. I asked permission to leave the room and the teacher nodded. 3 doze (off), nap, drowse, drop off, fall asleep: Exhausted travellers nodded in their chairs waiting for their flights to be announced. 4 slip (up), err, make a mistake, be mistaken or wrong; be careless or negligent or lax or inattentive: Sometimes, even Homer nods. --n. 5 signal, sign, cue, indication, gesture: I saw him give a nod to the barber, who suddenly held a cutthroat razor to my throat. 6 approval; consent, acquiescence, concurrence, assent, agreement, Colloq OK or okay: The company has given me the nod to open an office in Acapulco.
noise n. 1 sound, clamour, crash, clap, clash, clangour, din, thunder, thundering, rumble, rumbling, outcry, hubbub, uproar, hullabaloo, racket, charivari or US and Canadian also shivaree, rattle, caterwauling, rumpus, blare, blast, blasting, bawling, babel; commotion, bedlam, fracas, tumult, pandemonium, turmoil; discordance, dissonance, cacophony; Archaic alarms or alarums and excursions, Colloq ruckus, ruction, ballyhoo: I couldn't sleep because of the unbearable noise from the party next door. You may call acid rock music, but she calls it noise. 2 sound, disturbance: Did you just hear that strange noise? It's only the noise of the crickets. --v. 3 Often, noise about or around. circulate, spread, rumour, bruit (about): It is being noised about that John and Marsha are getting a divorce.
noisy adj. loud, deafening, ear-splitting, jarring, grating, harsh, piercing, shrill, discordant, unmusical, dissonant, cacophonous or cacophonic, resounding, clarion, clamorous, clangorous, thunderous, uproarious, blaring, blasting, obstreperous, vociferous, boisterous, tumultuous, riotous: I could hear nothing over the noisy aeroplane engines. When she arose to speak, the noisy crowd fell silent.
nominate v. choose, select, name, appoint, designate, suggest, offer, submit, recommend, propose, present, put up or forward; forward; Formal put forth: Baker has been nominated for the presidency.
non-aligned adj. uncommitted, non-allied, non-affiliated, unaligned, unaffiliated, unallied; neutral, impartial: There are several non-aligned nations that remain independent of the influence of the superpowers.
nonchalant adj. cool, unexcited, unexcitable, unperturbed, imperturbable, undisturbed, untroubled, unflappable, unruffled, dispassionate, unemotional, detached, distant, unconcerned, indifferent, pococurante, insouciant, uninterested, aloof, blas, offhand, calm, collected, composed, easygoing, free and easy, happy-go-lucky, casual, relaxed, at ease; unenthusiastic, apathetic; Colloq laid-back, together: How can you be so nonchalant about important issues that affect all our lives?!
non-completion n. non-fulfilment, unfulfilment, non-performance, incompleteness, deficiency: We regret the non-completion of the work on your house and will refund in full the amount already paid.
nonconformist n. 1 nonconformer, renegade, maverick, rebel, radical, individualist, heretic, dissenter, dissident, iconoclast, loner, exception, anomaly: In the 1960s, Alastair counted himself among the nonconformists who wore unconventional clothes and flouted conventional behaviour. --adj. 2 nonconforming, renegade, maverick, rebellious, radical, individualist(ic), heretical, dissentient, dissident, iconoclastic: Suffragists were ridiculed for their nonconformist ideas.
none pron. no one, not anyone, nobody, no person; not one; not any; nil: Of all the people I met, none impressed me more than Kathy. I'd give you a sweet if I had one, but I have none. I'd even give you money, but I have none.
nonetheless adv. See nevertheless, above.
non-existent adj. unreal, imaginary, imagined, fictional, fictive, fanciful, fancied, mythical, fabulous, fabled, illusory, chimerical, delusive: Although the entire Graeco-Roman pantheon became non-existent overnight, its gods and goddesses continue to pervade our culture.
no-nonsense adj. serious, unfrivolous, businesslike, practical, non-trivial, untrivial: Customs officials take a no-nonsense approach to drug trafficking.
non-partisan adj. 1 non-partizan, non-aligned, unaligned, unaffiliated, independent, non-committed, uncommitted, neutral, uninvolved, free, (sitting) on the fence: Choose between non-partisan and coalition candidates. 2 impartial, even-handed, fair, just, objective, unbiased, unprejudiced, equitable, dispassionate, disinterested: One could not find a more non-partisan judge than Sir Ronald. --n. 3 independent, neutral, mugwump: I am a non-partisan on the subject of privatization of public utilities.
non-productive adj. 1 unproductive, barren, sterile, infertile, unfertile, unfruitful, infecund: Non-productive land was left uncultivated. 2 ineffectual, bootless, ineffective, impractical, unavailing, pointless, useless, worthless, wasteful, time-consuming, time-wasting: Executives should spend more time working and less in non-productive meetings discussing the work to be done.
nonsensical adj. senseless, meaningless, absurd, ridiculous, ludicrous, laughable, preposterous, irrational, warped, askew, crazy, mad, silly, foolish, hare-brained, asinine, idiotic, moronic, imbecilic, stupid, dumb, Colloq nutty, screwy, cock-eyed, fool, screwball, Slang loony: What is your nonsensical excuse for being late this time?
nook n. 1 cranny, recess, niche, alcove, corner, cavity, crevice, crack, opening: Flowers grew from the nooks in the wall. 2 retreat, hide-out, hideaway, nest; inglenook: I curled up with a book in my nook next to the fireplace.
norm n. 1 usual, average, mean, normal: The norm for the day is 12 degrees Celsius. 2 model, standard, type, pattern, criterion, rule, measure, gauge, yardstick, benchmark: That style of window became the norm for many years.
normalize v. regularize, standardize, regulate, control; conform: The program is directed at normalizing the codes used in keyboarding text.
notable adj. 1 noteworthy, noted, famous, famed, well-known, renowned, illustrious, important, prominent, eminent, outstanding, great, distinguished, celebrated, acclaimed: Many notable people attended my college. 2 remarkable, different, distinctive, singular, unusual, uncommon, pre-eminent, peerless, matchless, unmatched, unequalled, unparalleled, extraordinary, conspicuous, outstanding, memorable, unforgettable, striking: She enjoyed a notable reputation as a cellist. Last night's notable performance was enjoyed by a capacity audience. --n. 3 dignitary, personage, worthy, VIP; celebrity, luminary, Colloq (big) name, big shot: Many notables attended the charity ball.
notation n. 1 note, memorandum, jotting, record, reminder, minute(s), abstract, Colloq memo: I shall make a notation of that in my diary. 2 symbols, signs, code, characters, symbolism: In musical notation, a minim represents two beats.
notched adj. serrate(d), sawtooth(ed), crenellate(d), crenate, serriform, pinked, scalloped, zigzag, toothed, dentate, denticulate(d), dentiform: The flower has notched yellow petals. The vase was decorated with a notched pattern.
noted adj. respected, eminent, distinguished, illustrious, esteemed, acclaimed; well-known, famous, famed, prominent, celebrated, notable, popular; notorious: We are pleased to welcome the noted violinist, David Popov. Was it his aunt or his mother who ran the noted house of ill repute near Brighton?
nothing n. 1 naught or nought, nothing at all or whatsoever, no thing, not anything, Taboo slang Brit bugger-all, (sweet) Fanny Adams or FA, SFA: Nothing that you tell me can be held against you in court. You may think it important, but I tell you it is nothing. 2 cipher, zero, nobody, nonentity: If it weren't for her, he would be nothing. 3 trifle, bagatelle, Colloq peanuts: A million is nothing to him.
noticeable adj. 1 discernible, perceivable, observable, perceptible, recognizable, distinguishable, visible, palpable, manifest, distinct, evident, clear, clear-cut, conspicuous, obvious; patent, unmistakable or unmistakeable, undisguised, unconcealed: Is the scratch noticeable? Wrinkles around the eyes are one of the first noticeable signs of ageing. 2 noteworthy, notable, significant, signal, remarkable, important, singular, exceptional, pronounced, distinct, especial, considerable, major: After the reprimand, there was a noticeable improvement in his work.
notion n. 1 idea, thought, concept, conception, image, impression, general idea, (mental) picture, inkling: She has a pretty good notion of who did it. I haven't the slightest notion of what you are talking about. 2 fancy, whim, crotchet, whimsy, caprice, impulse, inclination, vagary, conceit, quirk, kink: She suddenly took a notion to fly to New York and left.
notorious adj. 1 disreputable, dishonourable, disgraceful, infamous, shameful, shaming, embarrassing, discreditable, scandalous, naughty, flagrant, ignominious, opprobrious: Charles was yet again seen in public with a notorious arms dealer. 2 celebrated, renowned, famous, well-known, fabled, legendary, memorable: Annie was notorious for riding her horse to victory in every event.
nourish v. 1 feed, sustain, support, maintain, keep, provide for, care for, take care of, look after, nurture, nurse: The child seems to be thriving and well nourished. 2 foster, cherish, nurse, maintain, harbour, keep, nurture, sustain: Iago nourished a terrible hatred for Othello. 3 strengthen, fortify, encourage, promote, stimulate, cultivate, help, advance, aid: These malcontents continue to nourish trouble in the party ranks.
novel adj. 1 new, unusual, unfamiliar, unconventional, fresh, different, original, creative; untested, untried: I have a novel idea for the design of an ultralight aircraft. --n. 2 story, tale, narrative, romance; novella, novelette, best-seller, Colloq blockbuster: The members of our company board behave like characters out of a novel.
novice n. beginner, neophyte, newcomer, proselyte, tiro or tyro, noviciate or novitiate, learner, amateur, initiate, apprentice, trainee, probationer, fledgling or Brit also fledgeling, US freshman, Colloq greenhorn, rookie: She is a mere novice at parachuting.
nuclear adj. atomic: He joined the protest march against nuclear weapons.
nude adj. unclothed, undressed, uncovered, au naturel, bare, naked, in the nude, stark naked, undraped, without a stitch (on), Colloq in the buff, in the altogether, in one's birthday suit, Brit starkers, Brit and Australian in the nuddy: A nude man streaked across the football pitch.
nuisance n. 1 annoyance, inconvenience, trial, ordeal, burden, irritation, irritant, thorn in the flesh or side, difficulty, bother, US bur under the saddle, Colloq pain (in the neck or rear), headache, hassle, Slang US and Canadian pain in the butt, Taboo slang pain in the Brit arse, or US ass: Having to paint the room again was a terrible nuisance. 2 bore, pest, nag, tease, tormentor or tormenter: James has made a nuisance of himself by telephoning every fifteen minutes.
number n. 1 numeral, integer, figure, digit: The columns of numbers were entered in a neat hand. 2 few, handful, crowd, slew, gang, bunch, party, bevy, covey, troop, company, platoon, swarm, horde, multitude, mob, host, army, mass, hundred, thousand, million, billion; several, many, numbers, legions, US and Canadian slew(s) or slue(s), Colloq loads, tons: A number of people attended the meeting. An enormous number of viruses could fit on the head of a pin. 3 issue; edition, copy: The fourth number of the quarterly is published at the end of the year. --v. 4 count, enumerate, compute, calculate, tally, figure (up), add (up), include, total, tot (up), reckon, sum (up): Who can number the stars?
nuptial adj. bridal, matrimonial, wedding, spousal, wedded, marital; connubial, conjugal, Literary hymeneal: The nuptial arrangements have been made.
nutritious adj. healthful, healthy, nutritive, wholesome, life-giving, beneficial, salutary, nourishing, alimentary, nutrimental: Be sure you eat a nutritious breakfast every day.
oasis n. 1 fertile patch, watering-hole: In the desert, you cannot always be sure whether you are looking at an oasis or a mirage. 2 haven, refuge, (safe) harbour, sanctuary, retreat, asylum, resort, sanctum: We escaped to the cottage, a tiny oasis away from the city's frenetic activity.
obedient adj. compliant, dutiful, duteous, observant, respectful, tractable, yielding, conformable, adaptable, agreeable, amenable, acquiescent, submissive, subservient, docile, passive, timid, biddable, pliant: Prunella was always an obedient child. All matter and energy is obedient to the laws of physics.
obese adj. fat, overweight, stout, fleshy, gross, corpulent, heavy, plump, portly, tubby, pudgy, chubby, paunchy, rotund, pot-bellied, Rare abdominous: I sat down next to an obese person who occupied nearly two chairs.
obey v. 1 comply (with), agree (to), consent (to), submit (to), abide (by), observe, respect, adhere to, follow, conform (to or with), acquiesce (to or in), mind, accept, heed, defer to, yield (to), knuckle under (to), give way (to), surrender (to), succumb (to), give in (to), truckle to, bow to, bend to, take or accept orders from: Unfortunately, Ogilvy has obeyed his baser instincts in making the punishment fit the crime. Everything must obey the laws of nature. Harold obeys Millie's slightest whim. 2 discharge, execute, effect, carry out, fulfil, meet, satisfy, do, perform; serve, act: We obeyed the colonel's orders to the letter. It is your function to command, mine to obey.
object n. 1 thing, tangible, item; reality, entity, fact, phenomenon: A number of objects lay on the table. Thoughts may be considered as objects of the imagination. 2 focus, target, butt, aim, destination, quarry, goal: The object of my affection has married someone else. 3 purpose, end, intention, objective, reason, intent, idea, goal: The object of our visit is to ask you a few questions. --v. 4 protest (to or against), interfere (with), raise objections (to), argue (against), oppose, be against, take exception (to), disapprove (of), draw the line (at), complain (about), remonstrate (over or about), take a stand (against), refuse: I won't object if you want to bring the wine. Would you object to rereading that passage? If they ask me, I cannot object.
objective adj. 1 fair, impartial, just, judicious, equitable, neutral, disinterested, dispassionate, open-handed, open-minded, detached, unbiased, unprejudiced, unbigoted, even-handed, uncoloured, unjaundiced: How can you be objective about the guilt or innocence of your own child? --n. 2 target, goal, object, aim, purpose, end (in view), intent, intention, design, aspiration, ambition, hope: If we capture the flag, we shall have gained our objective. My objective is to win the pentathlon.
obligate n. oblige, pledge, commit, bind; require, compel, constrain, force: I feel deeply obligated to her for her kindness to our children. We are obligated to do what we are told.
obligatory adj. required, demanded, necessary, requisite, compulsory, mandatory; incumbent; indispensable, essential: Has she been able to meet all the obligatory qualifications?
obliged adj. 1 thankful, grateful, appreciative, beholden, indebted, obligated: We are deeply obliged to you for lending us your car. 2 bound, required, compelled, forced, made, obligated: Under the terms of the agreement, I am obliged to repay the debt by May.
oblique adj. 1 slanting, slanted, sloping, aslant, inclined, diagonal, inclining, angled, angling, canted, canting, banked, banking, cambered, crooked, askew, divergent, diverging, tilted, atilt, tilting: The roof joins the wall at an oblique angle. 2 awry, devious, roundabout, indirect, circuitous, circumlocutionary, evasive, sly, sidelong, offhand, surreptitious, furtive, implied, clandestine, underhand(ed), deceitful, devious, deceptive, false: She made some oblique comments about the candidate's wife.
oblivion n. 1 blankness, blackness, darkness, obscurity, nothingness, nihility, anonymity, extinction, non-existence, void, limbo: The rock band enjoyed brief fame, then sank into oblivion. 2 unawareness, obliviousness, forgetfulness, heedlessness, disregard, unconsciousness, insensibility: I sank back into the sweet oblivion of deep sleep.
obnoxious adj. revolting, repulsive, repugnant, disgusting, offensive, objectionable, fulsome, noisome, vile, repellent, nauseous, nauseating, sickening, foul, noxious, mephitic, unsavoury, execrable, abominable, abhorrent, loathsome, detestable, hateful, odious, scurvy, base, obscene, despicable, awful, terrible, unpalatable, distasteful, unlikeable, unpleasant, nasty, Colloq chiefly Brit beastly: Mary's obnoxious sister even has obnoxious table manners.
obscure adj. 1 dark, unlit, gloomy, sombre, dismal, murky, dusky, black, Cimmerian, tenebrous, dim, faint, blurred, veiled, shadowy, subfusc, subfuscous, umbral, shady, hazy, foggy, befogged, clouded, nebulous, overcast, cloudy: The traveller's lantern was barely seen in the obscure reaches of the wood. 2 unclear, uncertain, ambiguous, vague, hazy, doubtful, dubious, equivocal, indefinite, indistinct, fuzzy, blurred, confused, confusing, Delphic, puzzling, enigmatic, perplexing, baffling, mystifying, mysterious, cryptic, incomprehensible, unfamiliar, foreign, strange: The sorcerer muttered some obscure words, and a golden horse stood prancing before them. 3 secret, concealed, hidden, remote, out-of-the-way, inconspicuous, unnoticeable, secluded, unnoticed: The caped figure scurried down the alley and disappeared into some obscure doorway. 4 unknown, unheard-of, anonymous, unnamed, insignificant, unimportant, inconsequential, humble, lowly, mean, inglorious, inconspicuous, undistinguished, unnoticed, unsung, minor, little-known: Though extremely popular, the song was written by an obscure composer. 5 abstruse, arcane, recondite, esoteric, intricate, complex, occult, out of the ordinary, unfamiliar, Colloq far-out: He is an authority on some obscure subject like Coptic calligraphy. --v. 6 cover, conceal, hide, veil, shroud, cloak, mask, screen, disguise, keep from: Her link with military intelligence was obscured from her family. 7 dim, bedim, cloud, becloud, dull, shroud, shade, adumbrate, overshadow, darken, obfuscate, block, eclipse: The street lamp was obscured by trees.
obsequious adj. low, cringing, toadying, toadyish, sycophantic(al), sycophantish, unctuous, truckling, grovelling, crawling, fawning, deferential, ingratiating, menial, flattering, servile, slavish, subservient, submissive, abject, mealy-mouthed, slimy, Colloq boot-licking, Chiefly Brit smarmy, Taboo slang brown-nosing, Brit arse-kissing, arse-licking, US ass-licking, ass-kissing: He is surrounded with obsequious followers who cater to his every whim.
observance n. 1 observation, observing, obedience, obeying, compliance, complying, conformity, conforming, adherence, adhering, keeping, accordance, regard, recognition, recognizing, respect, respecting, heed, heeding, attention: Observance of the rules by everyone makes for a happier community. 2 ceremony, celebration, ceremonial, practice, rite, ritual, service, performance, form, custom, convention, tradition, formality, usage, habit, wont, institution: Almost all the fine arts derived their origin from religious observances. 3 observation, examination, inspection, scrutiny, looking, watching: His observance of the passing scene was chronicled in his diary.
observation n. 1 watching, examination, scrutiny, inspection, viewing, survey, surveillance; notice, discovery, attention, awareness: The police put the house under 24-hour observation. The smuggled weapon escaped the guard's observation. 2 comment, remark, note, reflection, opinion, sentiment, point of view, impression, feeling, commentary, criticism; utterance, word, announcement, pronouncement, proclamation, declaration: She made a number of trenchant observations concerning life in Britain today.
observer n. witness, eyewitness, spectator, viewer, onlooker, beholder, watcher, looker-on; non-participant: UN observers reported that the battle was over.
obsession n. fixed idea, ide fixe, fixation, conviction, preoccupation, prepossession, passion, mania, phobia, Colloq hang-up, thing: Thoughts of death became his constant obsession.
obsolescent adj. fading, waning, on the wane, declining, dying, on the way out, on the decline, going or passing out of use or fashion or style: Much of yesterday's newest slang is obsolescent today.
obstacle n. impediment, hindrance, obstruction, hurdle, hitch, catch, snag, stumbling-block, barrier, bar, check: The obstacles in the road prevented our proceeding further. One must often overcome many obstacles before achieving success.
obstinate adj. stubborn, dogged, tenacious, persistent, mulish, perverse, headstrong, pigheaded, single-minded, wilful, strong-willed, self-willed, contrary, recalcitrant, uncooperative, rebellious, contumacious, refractory, intransigent, pertinacious, obdurate, fixed, inflexible, stony, adamant, set, unmoving, immovable, inexorable, intractable, unchangeable, resolute, steadfast, unyielding, persevering, stiff, rigid, hard, Archaic froward, Colloq Brit bloody-minded: The obstinate man does not hold opinions - they hold him.
obstruct v. 1 block, bar, check, prevent, stop (up), arrest, halt, clog, make impassable; bring to a standstill: The vein is obstructed by a large blood clot. A clogged drain is obstructing the water. 2 hamper, slow, impede, interfere with, retard, hinder, interrupt, delay, stay, stall: An overturned truck obstructed traffic on the motorway. 3 preclude, prevent, debar, block, prohibit, forbid, stop, stand in the way of: They are manoeuvring to obstruct her from taking over the company.
obtain v. 1 get, procure, acquire, come by, come into (the) possession of, secure, get hold of or one's hands on, grasp, capture, take possession of, seize; buy, purchase: She has been unable to obtain the job she wants. You can obtain that kind of soap at the supermarket. 2 earn, gain: We talked to the manager about obtaining an increase in wages. 3 prevail, be in force, be in vogue, exist, subsist, have (a) place, be prevalent, be established, be customary, apply, be relevant, relate: A different set of regulations obtains here.
obtrusive adj. interfering, intrusive, meddling, officious, meddlesome, importunate, forward, presumptuous, forceful, Colloq pushy: She found him somewhat obtrusive - always giving advice when she least needed it.
obvious adj. clear, plain, apparent, patent, perceptible, evident, self-evident, clear-cut, manifest, palpable, (much) in evidence, conspicuous, open, visible, overt, ostensible, pronounced, prominent, glaring, undeniable, unconcealed, unhidden, unsubtle, distinct, simple, bald, bald-faced, straightforward, direct, self-explanatory, indisputable, unmistakable or unmistakeable: There are obvious flaws in the fabric. The reason you were refused seemed obvious to me.
occasional adj. 1 intermittent, irregular, periodic, random, sporadic, infrequent, casual, incidental: They staged occasional raids on the arsenal. He works as an occasional farm hand. 2 additional, extra, spare, supplementary, incidental, auxiliary, accessory: We bought a few occasional chairs in case we have company. 3 special, particular, ceremonial, ritual: She writes occasional verses for memorial services.
occult adj. 1 secret, dark, concealed, private, privy, hidden, obscure, veiled, obscured, shrouded, vague, abstruse, shadowy, mystical, mysterious, cabbalistic, esoteric, recondite, arcane: Printing was kept an occult art for generations. 2 magical, mystical, alchemic(al), unexplained, unexplainable, inexplicable, puzzling, baffling, perplexing, mystifying, mysterious, incomprehensible, inscrutable, indecipherable, impenetrable, unfathomable, transcendental, supernatural, preternatural, mystic: They dress in odd clothes and participate in occult rituals at peculiar times of the day and night. --n. 3 Usually, the occult. the supernatural, the unknown, the black arts; arcana, cabbala or cabala or kabbala; cabbalism or cabalism or kabbalism, occultism, sorcery, witchcraft, black magic: Keith has studied the occult for many years.
occupation n. 1 job, position, post, situation, appointment, employment, vocation, line (of work), career, field, calling, trade, mtier, craft, skill, profession, business, work: Claverton pursued his occupation as a miniaturist for some fifty years. 2 possession, tenure, occupancy, rule, control, suzerainty, subjugation, subjection, oppression, bondage: Terrible atrocities were committed while the land was under the occupation of the Mongols. 3 conquest, seizure, appropriation, take-over: Francisco Pizarro was responsible for the occupation of Peru.
occur v. 1 happen, take place, arise, come about, befall, come to pass, chance, appear, surface, materialize, develop, become manifest, manifest itself, Colloq transpire, crop up, come off, turn up: We reported to the police all that had occurred. What occurred to make you late this time? 2 occur to. dawn on, strike, hit, come to, suggest itself to, cross (someone's) mind, enter (someone's) head, be brought to (someone's) attention: Has it occurred to you that she might not like opera?
ocean n. 1 (deep blue) sea, (bounding) main, high seas, the deep, Davy Jones's locker, the depths, Colloq the briny, the drink: The sails filled, and our tiny craft was swept out into the open ocean. 2 Often, oceans. flood, abundance, multitude, profusion, plethora, Colloq scads, loads, tons, lots, oodles, gobs, zillions: The direct mail campaign yielded oceans of responses.
odd adj. 1 strange, peculiar, unusual, uncommon, different, unexpected, unfamiliar, extraordinary, remarkable, atypical, untypical, exotic, out of the ordinary, unparalleled, unconventional, exceptional, unique, singular, individual, anomalous, idiosyncratic, rare, deviant, outlandish, uncanny, queer, curious, bizarre, weird, eccentric, funny, quaint, fantastic, freak, abnormal, freakish, Colloq offbeat, screwy, kinky, freaky, Slang Brit barmy, bent, rum, US and Canadian kooky or kookie: Ebenezer is an odd name for a dog. Where did you get that odd hat? I cannot account for his odd behaviour. 2 occasional, casual, part-time, irregular, random, sporadic, discontinuous, disconnected, various, varied, miscellaneous, sundry, incidental: After being made redundant, he worked at odd jobs for a year or so. The odd shower can be expected during the afternoon. 3 leftover, surplus, remaining, unused, spare, superfluous, extra: After the patterns were cut, we were allowed to take the odd scraps of fabric. 4 uneven, unmatched, unpaired: This gallery has an odd number of columns.
odds n.pl. 1 chances, likelihood, probability: The odds are that Janet will finish the job in time. 2 edge, advantage, lead, superiority: We have won before against greater odds. 3 difference, inequality, disparity, unevenness, discrepancy, dissimilarity, distinction: It makes no odds who you are, you may not go in there. 4 at odds. at variance, at loggerheads, at daggers drawn, at sixes and sevens, at cross purposes, at each other's throats, in disagreement, in opposition, on bad terms, not in keeping, out of line, inharmonious, conflicting, clashing, disagreeing, differing: Teenagers have been at odds with their parents since time immemorial. 5 odds and ends. oddments, fragments, debris, leftovers, leavings, remnants, bits (and pieces), particles, shreds, snippets, scraps, rubbish, litter, Colloq Brit odds and sods: We managed to pack everything into boxes except for a few odds and ends.
off adv. 1 away, out, elsewhere: His secretary said that he'd gone off for the weekend. 2 distant, away, afar, far-off: The U-boat was a mile off. Christmas is only a month off. --adj. 3 incorrect, wrong, inaccurate, in error, mistaken, misguided, misled, off the mark: I'm afraid you're off on the question of the best way to approach him. 4 mad, insane, crazy, eccentric, touched (in the head), Colloq dotty, dippy, nutty, potty: Underwood's aunt is slightly off. 5 remote, distant, improbable, unlikely: He went to the station on the off chance that she would be on the midday train. 6 off work, at leisure, idle, free, open; on holiday: Can you get the day off tomorrow to go on a picnic with me? 7 sour, mouldy, bad, rotten, rancid, turned, high: The cream smells a bit off. 8 bad, unpropitious, disappointing, unsatisfactory, disheartening, displeasing, slack, slow, substandard, below par, below average, quiet: It has been an off year for the local football team. 9 cancelled, postponed: The meeting is off till next week. 10 situated, fixed, supplied: Is he really that well off? She was much worse off when they were married.
off colour adj. 1 unwell, ill, off form, out of sorts, queasy, sick, run down, awful, seedy, Colloq under the weather, poorly, Slang lousy, rotten: I have been feeling off colour since eating that fish. 2 indelicate, risqu, ribald, bawdy, indecent, suggestive, broad, indelicate, inelegant, improper, inappropriate, unseemly, blue: My mother does not tolerate off-colour remarks at the dinner table.
offend v. 1 hurt (someone's) feelings, affront, insult, slight, snub, give offence, hurt, pain, displease, disgruntle, chagrin, humiliate, embarrass; pique, fret, gall, vex, annoy, irritate, nettle, needle, rankle, provoke, ruffle, outrage, rile, anger , Colloq miff, put (someone's) back up, put (someone's) nose out of joint, tread or step on (someone's) toes, put (someone) out, rattle: I hope you weren't offended by my saying that you could do with losing some weight. 2 disgust, sicken, turn (someone's) stomach, nauseate, repel, repulse, revolt, Colloq turn (someone) off: I, for one, am offended by seeing explicit sex on television.
offensive adj. 1 antagonistic, hostile, contentious, quarrelsome, attacking, aggressive, threatening, provocative, combative, martial, belligerent, warlike, bellicose: The minute the enemy made an offensive move, we attacked. 2 insulting, rude, disrespectful, uncivil, insolent, discourteous, impolite, unmannerly, impertinent, impudent, objectionable, displeasing: Nigel has been asked to leave because of his offensive behaviour. 3 disgusting, unsavoury, unpalatable, nauseating, nauseous, noisome, noxious, obnoxious, repugnant, repulsive, repellent, revolting, abominable, foul, loathsome, vile, sickening, fetid or foetid, rank, malodorous, mephitic, putrid, putrescent, putrefying, rancid, rotten: An offensive stench emanated from the stagnant pond. --n. 4 attack, offence: At last, our team was on the offensive. 5 attack, onslaught, drive, assault, offence, push: The offensive to capture the arsenal will be launched at dawn tomorrow.
offering n. sacrifice, oblation, contribution, donation, gift, present: They made offerings to the gods in order to propitiate them.
office n. 1 business, organization, department, firm, house, establishment, company, corporation: Whenever I'm travelling, I always try to phone the office once a day. 2 commission, department, branch; section, division: He was with the overseas office for years. 3 workplace, offices; room, area: Our new office is completely air-conditioned. My office is next to the board room. 4 duty, obligation, responsibility, charge, commission, service, employment, occupation, position, post, appointment, assignment, chore, task, job, place, berth, work, role, function, purpose, part, bit, Colloq thing, Slang shtick: He was appointed to the office of Minister of Health. In her office as Minister of Finance, she wields great power. 5 offices. indulgence, intermediation, auspices, support, advocacy, aegis, help, aid, intercession, mediation, patronage, favour, backing, backup: She appealed to the police chief's good offices to allow her to visit her son.
official adj. 1 authorized, legitimate, lawful, legal, authentic, bona fide, proper, true, accredited, valid, documented, licensed, sanctioned, endorsed, certified, verified, recognized, accepted: I won't believe I've won till I hold the official notification in my own hands. 2 ceremonial, formal, solemn, ritualistic, ceremonious, pompous, stiff, proper, seemly, decorous: She has to make an acceptance speech at the official dinner. --n. 3 See officer, 1, above.
officious adj. dictatorial, intrusive, intruding, meddlesome, meddling, obtrusive, forward, bold, interfering, aggressive, insistent, persistent, demanding, importunate: Hamish is one of those officious little men who are always ready to give unasked-for advice.
offshoot n. 1 branch, spur; shoot, limb, bough, twig, stem, appendage, sucker, sprout, sprig, tendril, scion: There is an offshoot of this road that goes up the hill. The offshoots are trained to grow along the arms of the espalier. 2 descendant, relation, relative, kin, kindred, offspring, scion, heir: One offshoot of the family later emigrated to the United States. 3 outgrowth, development, branch, spin-off; by-product, derivative: An offshoot of the company manufactures optical instruments. The sale of gravel for concrete is an offshoot of our mining operations.
often adv. frequently, regularly, much, many times, usually, habitually, commonly; ordinarily, again and again, over and over again, time after time, repeatedly, time and (time) again, in many cases or instances, on numerous occasions, day in (and) day out, continually, Literary oftentimes, oft: How often do you visit your mother? We often went to the seaside for our summer holiday. She was often warned not to go too near the edge. ogle v. 1 leer, eye, make eyes at, Colloq give (someone) the glad eye, give (someone) the once-over, make sheep's eyes at: The old lecher is always ogling the pretty young secretaries. 2 gape, gaze, goggle, gawk, stare, Slang Brit gawp or gaup: We took turns ogling the rings of Saturn through the telescope. --n. 3 leer, stare, gape, goggle, oeillade, Colloq once-over, glad eye: They all crowded round the paper for an ogle at the pin-ups.
oily adj. 1 greasy, oleaginous, fat, fatty, adipose, pinguid, sebaceous, soapy, saponaceous, buttery, butyraceous, lardaceous; slippery, slimy, slithery, smooth, unctuous: The cars slid about as the tyres failed to grip the oily surface. 2 glib, smooth, unctuous, servile, obsequious, sycophantic, ingratiating, flattering, hypocritical; suave, urbane, sophisticated, Colloq smarmy: Sarah found Curtis's approach sickeningly oily.
OK interj. 1 OK!, Okay!, Fine!, Yes!, Definitely!, Agreed!, Very well!, All right!: 'Would you have dinner with me?' 'OK!' 'I think you ought to leave.' 'OK!' --adj. 2 satisfactory, acceptable, correct, suitable, all right, fine, good, in order: Is it OK if I go the cinema tonight? That dress is OK to wear to the dance. 3 adequate, mediocre, fair, middling, passable, tolerable, Colloq so so, pretty good, not bad, not great: The film was OK, I suppose. 4 well, healthy; sound, in good condition, in fine fettle, fine, all right: Now that he's on the proper medication, Sam is OK. The mechanic assured me that my car would be OK. --v. 5 approve, sanction, ratify, authorize, endorse, support, agree to, allow, consent to, agree to, Colloq give the go-ahead or green light to, give the thumbs up or the nod to, rubber-stamp: A department head must OK your expense account before you can be reimbursed. --n. 6 approval, sanction, ratification, authorization, endorsement, agreement, support, permission, consent: You need an OK from the security guard to enter the restricted area. --adv. 7 all right, satisfactorily, well (enough), adequately: She can get along OK without me.
old-fashioned adj. antiquated, antique, pass, out-moded, out-dated, unfashionable, stale, out-dated, dated, out of date, tired, old-time, obsolete, obsolescent, dead, superseded, replaced, disused, out, old-fangled, old hat: Whoever thought we would see the day when miniskirts were old-fashioned?
ominous adj. 1 foreboding, threatening, fateful, dark, black, gloomy, lowering or louring, menacing, sinister; unpropitious, unfavourable, ill-omened, ill-starred, unpromising, star-crossed, inauspicious: With ominous solemnity, the judge placed a black cloth square on his head before passing the death sentence. 2 minatory, warning, admonitory, cautionary: The whispering had taken on ominous overtones. 3 portentous, prophetic, oracular, vaticinal, predictive, prognostic, augural, mantic, sibyllic, meaningful, premonitory, foreshadowing, foretelling, foretokening, indicative: Virtually everything was regarded as ominous in ancient times.
omit v. 1 leave out, exclude, skip, except, pass over; delete, erase, cancel, eradicate, edit out, strike (out), dele, cut (out), cross out, obliterate: She was offended because he omitted any mention of all that she had contributed. 2 neglect, disregard, fail, forget, overlook, let slide, ignore: I omitted to tell you that your sister telephoned yesterday. once adv. 1 once upon a time, formerly, (at) one time, on a former occasion, previously, before, in days gone by, in olden days, in the (good) old days, long ago, some time ago, years or ages or aeons ago, in days of yore: Your hair is as long as mine once was. He was once a famous film star. That once revered leader has fallen. 2 one time, on one occasion, a single time: He has visited his family only once in all these years. 3 once and for all. finally, positively, definitely, decidedly, conclusively, for good: We must settle the itinerary once and for all before we can make the bookings. 4 once in a while. occasionally, (every) now and then, now and again, at times, sometimes, periodically, from time to time, at intervals, sporadically: We go to the theatre once in a while. --conj. 5 (if) ever, as soon as, at any time: Once the bus comes, you'd best get on it straight away. --n. 6 at once. a immediately, straight away, right away, directly, without delay, promptly, instantly, post-haste; in a wink, in the twinkling of an eye, in a minute or moment or second or split second, in no time (at all), before you can turn around, before you can say 'Jack Robinson', in a trice, Colloq in a jiffy, in two shakes of a lamb's tail: Watson, come here at once. I'll be there at once. b together, at the same time, simultaneously, at a stroke, in the same instant, in the same breath, Colloq at one go, at a go, in one go: You cannot be in two places at once.
one adj. 1 single, lone, solitary, individual, sole, only: The one time I kissed Margie it was heaven. 2 unified, united, inseparable, joined, undivided, one and the same, identical, equal, at one, harmonious, in unison, whole, entire, complete: When he went into a trance, he felt one with his God. 3 a particular, a certain, a given, a specific: I recall one occasion when she brought all her dogs into work. --pron. 4 a person, an individual, a man or a woman, everybody, everyone, anybody, anyone; people; Possibly offensive man: One ought to treat others as one would like to be treated. One cannot be too careful these days. --n. 5 joke, story, anecdote, chestnut, one-liner; limerick, rhyme, ditty, song; bromide: Have you heard the one that begins, 'There was a young man from Loch Ness'?
ongoing adj. 1 continuing, continued, continuous, continual, ceaseless, unbroken, uninterrupted, constant, perpetual, non-stop, relentless, persistent, unending, endless, interminable, running: There has been an ongoing dispute with the museum over the authenticity of the sculpture. 2 developing, evolving, growing, successive, unfolding, progressing, progressive: Rather than come to a hasty decision, we decided to monitor ongoing developments.
only adj. 1 sole, single, solitary, lone, one and only, exclusive: He is the only one who can identify the murderer. --adv. 2 solely, just, exclusively, alone: He has a face that only a mother could love. They have been here only twice. She gets her own way only because she has a tantrum if anyone crosses her. Harry was correct in one respect only. 3 merely, simply, barely, at best, at worst, at most, just, purely, not or no more than, not or no greater than: She is only seventeen. I received your note only today. Don't get excited, it's only a small present. --conj. 4 but, however, on the other hand, on the contrary, contrariwise: The flowers are lovely, only they have no scent.
onward adj. forward, advancing, progressive, progressing, moving onward or forward: They resumed their onward march, laying waste to the countryside as they went.
opacity n. 1 opaqueness, darkness, murkiness, dimness, obscurity, impermeability, impenetrability: The opacity of the lens increases automatically in the presence of sunlight. 2 obscurity, density, impenetrability, unintelligibility, indefiniteness, vagueness, reconditeness, abstruseness, ambiguity, equivocation, mystification: For centuries scientists were unable to penetrate the opacity of the question of what occurred when substances burned. 3 stupidity, dullness, denseness, thickness, obtuseness: A light finally dawned through the thick opacity of his brain.
opaque adj. 1 dark, murky, dim, turbid, muddy, cloudy, obscure, obscured, obfuscated, black, impermeable, impenetrable, clouded, non-transparent, untransparent, non-translucent, hazy, blurred, blurry, smoky: Solar eclipses should be viewed directly only through special opaque glass. 2 unclear, vague, indefinite, obscure, unfathomable, unplumbable, baffling, mystifying, ambiguous, equivocal, impenetrable, cryptic, enigmatic, puzzling, perplexing, mysterious, elusive, abstruse, arcane, recondite: Despite years of study, the inscriptions on the tomb have remained opaque to scholars. 3 unintelligent, dense, thick, dull, obtuse, stupid, dull-witted, stolid, thickheaded, dunderheaded, dunderpated, slow, doltish, backward, cloddish: He was too opaque to notice the jeers of his colleagues.
opening n. 1 break, breach, rent, rift, cleft, crack, crevice, fissure, cranny, chink, pit, gap, split, slit, slot, aperture, hole, orifice, separation: Flowers grew from openings in the wall. 2 opportunity, chance, occasion, toe-hold, foothold, Colloq break, toe or foot in the door, Brit look-in: I was waiting for an appropriate opening to make my presentation. 3 job, position, opportunity, vacancy: Is there likely to be an opening in the art department of your company? 4 beginning, commencement, start, birth, origin, outset, onset, inauguration, launch, send-off, initiation, presentation, debut; vernissage, US start-off, start-up: The opening of the autumn social season was marked by Malcolm's birthday party. Aren't you going to the opening at the museum tonight?
operable adj. workable, practicable, serviceable, usable, functional, fit, operational, in working order or condition: Aircraft engines that rely on oxygen for burning fuel are not operable where the air is too thin.
operation n. 1 function, functioning, working, running, performance, action, motion, movement: The operation of the internal combustion engine is very simple. 2 manipulation, handling, direction, running, control, management, managing; manoeuvring: The operation of the aircraft is under the control of the captain. 3 undertaking, enterprise, venture, project, affair, deal, procedure, proceeding, (day-to-day) business, transaction: Who will be in charge of the operation while the president is abroad? 4 Often, operations. action, manoeuvre, mission, task, campaign, exercise: The generals directed military operations from positions close to enemy lines. 5 in or into operation. functioning, operative, in effect, in force, operating, operational, functional, effective, efficacious: Is the factory in operation yet? The new regulations went into operation last week. operative adj. 1 See operation, 5, above. --n. 2 worker, hand, employee; craftsman, craftswoman, artisan, mechanic, machinist: We hired two more lathe operatives today. 3 private detective, (private) investigator, Colloq private eye, sleuth, Brit sleuth-hound, US PI, gumshoe, Slang (private) dick, US shamus, eye: Our operatives reported that Jones had been seen in the company of a known enemy agent. 4 espionage or intelligence agent, counter-espionage or counter-intelligence agent, spy, counter-spy, undercover agent or man, (FBI or CIA) agent, US G-man, Colloq US company man, member of the firm: We had an operative at the top level of the NKVD.
opinion n. 1 belief, judgement, thought, sentiment, (point of) view, viewpoint, conviction, way of thinking, perception, idea, impression, notion, conception, theory, ide reu; mind: It is my opinion that sickness benefits ought to be increased. In her opinion all men are chauvinists. 2 evaluation, estimation, estimate, appraisal, appreciation, impression: Myra has a very low opinion of Ray's taste in architecture.
opponent n. antagonist, adversary, disputant, contestant, competitor, contender, rival, foe, enemy; the opposition: He may be my opponent in the chess competition, but we are the best of friends.
opportunistic adj. expedient, selfish, taking advantage, exploitive or exploitative, unprincipled, Machiavellian, opportunist: Don't you agree that it was opportunistic of him to inform on his own brother for a reward?
oppose v. 1 resist, counter, object (to), defy, take a stand against, withstand, resist, combat, contest, attack, counter-attack, fight, grapple with, contend with or against: If it comes to that, we must oppose force with force. 2 check, bar, obstruct, block, hinder, impede, stop, slow, curb, restrain, inhibit, interfere with, restrict, prevent, obviate, preclude, thwart, foil, frustrate: Labour seeks to oppose the privatization of industry. 3 match, offset, counterbalance, contrast, pit or set against, play off (against), set off: What can they call upon to oppose the power of the Devil?
opposing adj. opposite, conflicting, contrary, antithetical, antagonistic, antipathetic, hostile, inimical, contrasting, rival, contradictory, incompatible, irreconcilable, dissident, discrepant: Those with opposing views will be heard from later.
opposition n. 1 hostility, antagonism, unfriendliness, resistance, counteraction, disapproval, objection, conflict, defiance, contrast, antipathy, adversity, Colloq flak: There is strong opposition to plans for an amusement arcade. 2 competition, opponent, adversary, competitor, antagonist, enemy, foe, rival, other side: We must overcome the opposition in order to win. 3 in opposition. competing, competitive, antagonistic, hostile, conflicting, in conflict, antithetic(al), opposed, at daggers drawn, in deadly embrace: Although they agree on some points, the parties are in opposition on others.
oppression n. repression, suppression, subjugation, subjection, tyranny, despotism, enslavement, persecution, maltreatment, abuse, torment, torture, hardship, injury, pain, anguish, injustice: People who have not known oppression cannot imagine the agonies suffered by the oppressed who once were free.
oppressor n. bully, tyrant, taskmaster, taskmistress, despot, autocrat, persecutor, slave-driver, dictator, overlord, iron hand, scourge, tormentor, torturer, intimidator: The citizens finally banded together and overthrew their oppressors.
optimum n. 1 best, finest, most favourable, ideal, perfection, model, paragon, exemplar: In all work, the optimum is difficult to achieve. --adj. 2 best, finest, most favourable, ideal, perfect, choicest, optimal, first-rate, first-class, sterling, prime, capital, excellent, exceptional, superlative, extraordinary, unique, peerless, unequalled, unexcelled, unsurpassed: These instruments keep the chamber at the optimum temperature. After months of training, Guy is in optimum condition to win the marathon.
optional adj. voluntary, discretionary or discretional, elective, facultative, free, spontaneous, uncoerced, unforced, non-compulsory, uncompulsory, non-mandatory, unmandatory, non-requisite, unrequisite: Life insurance is optional for those who have our hospitalization policy.
opus n. work, composition, production, oeuvre, creation; magnum opus: Her most important opus will be performed at the Albert Hall next week. oracle n. 1 prophet, sibyl, seer, soothsayer, augur, fortune-teller, diviner, prognosticator, US reader (and adviser or advisor), Cassandra, Nostradamus; authority, guru, mastermind, mentor, wizard: He insists on consulting his oracle before making any final decision. 2 prophecy, augury, prediction, divination, advice, prognostication, answer, message, divine utterance: According to the oracle, the travellers would survive the perils of the journey.
oration n. speech, declaration, address, lecture, recitation, discourse, monologue, declamation; valedictory, eulogy, homily, panegyric; Colloq spiel: Bentley delivered a long oration on the future of the economy.
orb n. sphere, ball, globe: The golden orb of the sun sank into the sea.
ordeal n. trial, test, tribulation(s), hardship, affliction, trouble(s), suffering, distress, anguish, nightmare, misery, grief, misfortune, adversity, tragedy, disaster: She never fully recovered from her ordeal at the hands of the kidnappers.
orderly adj. 1 in (good) order, (well-)organized, neat, shipshape, tidy, arranged, methodical, systematic, systematized or systemized, harmonious, symmetrical, regular, uniform: Before you leave, make sure that your room is orderly. 2 well-behaved, disciplined, decorous, law-abiding, well-mannered, peaceable, tranquil, mannerly, polite, courteous, civil, civilized, non-violent: Everyone left the burning theatre in an orderly fashion. --n. 3 assistant, adjutant, attendant, messenger; menial, servant; nurse's aide; Brit military batman; US candystriper; Slang US and Canadian gofer: An orderly arrived with dispatches from the general. She has a job as a hospital orderly.
ordinary adj. 1 usual, normal, expected, common, general, customary, routine, typical, habitual, accustomed, traditional, regular, everyday, familiar, set, humdrum: This wine is quite good for ordinary drinking. Just display ordinary good manners when you meet the queen. 2 common, conventional, modest, plain, simple, prosaic, homespun, commonplace, run-of-the-mill, everyday, average, unpretentious, workaday, mediocre, fair, passable, so so, undistinguished, unexceptional, unremarkable, uninspired, pedestrian, bourgeois, peasant, provincial, unrefined, Colloq Brit common or garden, US common-or-garden variety, garden-variety: They bought a rather ordinary house in an inferior neighbourhood. --n. 3 standard, norm, average, status quo, convention, expected: Saint-Gaudens' architectural designs are far from the ordinary. 4 out of the ordinary. extraordinary, unusual, uncommon, strange, unfamiliar, different, unexpected, unconventional, curious, eccentric, peculiar, rare, exceptional, original, singular, unique, odd, bizarre, weird, offbeat, outlandish, striking, quaint, picturesque: She was looking for a gift that was a little out of the ordinary, so I suggested a pet tarantula.
organic adj. 1 living, natural, biological, biotic, animate, breathing: Though coal may seem to be a mineral, it is organic, for it was formed from plants. 2 basic, elementary, essential, innate, inborn, natural, native, ingrained, primary, fundamental, visceral, constitutional, inherent, structural, integral: The organic differences between the styles of writing are obvious. 3 organized, systematic, coherent, coordinated, integrated, structured, methodical, orderly, consistent: The various elements of the painting blend into an organic whole.
organization n. 1 organizing, structuring, assembling, assembly, putting together, coordination, systematizing, systematization, classifying, classification, categorizing, categorization, codifying, codification: The organization of the school timetable took hours to complete. 2 structure, pattern, configuration, design, plan, scheme, order, system, organism, composition, arrangement, constitution, make-up, grouping, framework, format, form, shape: One must consider the organization as a whole, not merely its constituent elements. 3 body, system, institution, federation, confederacy, confederation, society, group, league, coalition, conglomerate, combine, consortium, syndicate, organism: The organization is a coherent structure made up of an enormous number of disparate elements.
orgy n. 1 bacchanalia, bacchanal, Saturnalia, Dionysia, debauch, carousal, carouse, spree, revel, party, Colloq binge, bender, drunk, bust, Slang jag, US and Canadian toot, tear: The journalist represented the earl's party as a wild orgy. 2 overindulgence, splurge, spree, fling, Slang US bender: Trying to lift himself out of depression, Roger went on a spending orgy. orient n. 1 east: Harriet is in the orient on business. --adj. 2 Literary oriental, eastern: The grass was sown with orient pearls. --v. 3 adjust, adapt, acclimatize or acclimate, habituate, accommodate, condition, accustom, familiarize, feel one's way, assess, get one's bearings, Colloq orientate: It is a new job and she needs a few days to orient herself.
origin n. 1 source, derivation, rise, fountain-head, foundation, basis, base, well-spring, fount, provenance, Chiefly US provenience: The origins of many English words are unknown. 2 creation, genesis, birth, birthplace, cradle, dawning, dawn, origination, start, beginning, commencement, outset, launch, launching, inception, inauguration: The origin of the notion of democracy can be traced to ancient Greece. 3 Often, origins. parentage, ancestry, extraction, descent, lineage, pedigree, genealogy, stock, heritage: We have traced our family's origins back to the Middle Ages.
originality n. creativeness, creativity, inventiveness, ingenuity, innovativeness, innovation, novelty, newness, unorthodoxy, unconventionality, cleverness, daring, resourcefulness, independence, individuality, uniqueness, nonconformity: One must admire Dali for his originality.
originate v. 1 create, bring about, engender, give birth to, beget, conceive, initiate, inaugurate, start, begin, introduce, launch, found, set up, institute, establish, invent, coin, devise, pioneer, design, contrive, concoct, mastermind, compose, organize, formulate, form, generate, produce, develop, evolve: Wasn't it the Chinese who originated free public health schemes? 2 arise, rise, begin, start, come, spring, stem, flow, issue, emerge, emanate, proceed, grow, develop, evolve, derive, result: Where did the idea of the democratic form of government originate?
ornamental adj. decorative, beautifying, adorning, garnishing, embellishing: Nothing in the house is ornamental, everything is functional.
orthodox adj. conformist, accepted, authoritative, authorized, recognized, received, official, standard, prevailing, prevalent, common, regular, popular, ordinary, doctrinal, established, traditional, traditionalist, accustomed, conventional, customary, conservative: The orthodox view is that he was killed by an assassin acting on his own. oscillate v. fluctuate, vibrate, waver, see-saw, swing, sway; vacillate, equivocate, shilly-shally, hem and haw, tergiversate: The needle is oscillating between the 'Safe' and 'Danger' marks. I wish he'd stop oscillating and make up his mind.
ostentation n. show, display, exhibition, exhibitionism, showing off, pretension, pretentiousness, flaunting, flashiness, flourish, flamboyance, parade, window-dressing: His clothes are elegant without ostentation.
ostracize v. blackball, blacklist, banish, exile, boycott, isolate, segregate, exclude, excommunicate, snub, shun, avoid, Chiefly Brit send to Coventry, Colloq cut, cold-shoulder, give (someone) the cold shoulder: Marcus has been ostracized at the club ever since the court case.
out adv. 1 outside, outdoors, in or into the open air: If you go out take an umbrella. 2 away (from), abroad, elsewhere, not (at) home, gone (from), gone away (from), absent (from): She was out of the house when I phoned. 3 in or into the open, to or into public notice, for all to see, out of the closet: Everything will be brought out at the trial. 4 revealed, exposed, visible, discernible, manifest, in sight, in view: Are the stars out tonight? 5 short, minus, missing, in default, out of pocket: He is out the 2000 he invested in a Welsh diamond mine. 6 free, at liberty, at large, loose, unconfined: They let Matilda out after she served her sentence. 7 completely, thoroughly, effectively, entirely: I was tired out after that long swim. --adj. 8 unconscious, senseless, insensible, Colloq out cold, out like a light: He has been out for almost an hour. 9 dated, out-dated, out-moded, pass, old-fashioned, antiquated, old hat, dmod, obsolete, unfashionable: Longer skirts were out in the mid-1960s. 10 outlying, distant, far-off, peripheral: He was planning to travel to the outer reaches of his empire. Let's sail to some of the out islands. 11 exhausted, gone, finished, ended; over, completed: Our food was out. Rescue came before the day was out. 12 inaccurate, incorrect, wrong, at fault, faulty, off, wide of the mark: Your figures are out by a factor of four. 13 unacceptable, forbidden, prohibited, not allowed, Colloq not on: Smoking is out in the dining room. 14 extinguished, unlit; off, doused; inoperative, non-functioning, out of order or commission, unserviceable, broken: Make certain that all camp-fires are completely out. The light is out in the corridor. --n. 15 alibi, excuse, escape, loophole, evasion: She used your visit as an out to avoid calling on her mother. out-and-out adj. complete, unmitigated, unalloyed, undiluted, pure, utter, perfect, consummate, outright, total, downright, unqualified, thorough, thoroughgoing, through-and-through, dyed in the wool: She was an out-and-out fool to turn down his marriage proposal.
outcast n. pariah, exile, reject, persona non grata, leper, untouchable, expatriate, refugee, displaced person, DP, evacuee: In 1946, Europe swarmed with outcasts, the detritus of the war.
outcry n. protest, protestation, decrial, complaint, indignation, uproar, vociferation, clamour, clamouring, commotion, outburst, noise, hullabaloo, howl, howling, hoot, hooting, boo, booing, hiss, hissing: The public outcry against terrorism was heard round the world.
outdoor adj. outside, out of doors, alfresco, open-air: Both of them enjoy outdoor activities like hiking and bicycling.
outgoing adj. 1 departing, retiring, ex-, former, past, emeritus, leaving, withdrawing: It is our custom to honour the outgoing president with a banquet. 2 genial, friendly, amiable, cordial, warm, expansive, approachable, affable, accessible, amenable, easygoing, amicable, sociable, congenial, extrovert, familiar, informal, communicative: Because of his outgoing attitude, Keith gets along well with most people.
outlandish adj. unfamiliar, strange, odd, queer, offbeat, peculiar, curious, exotic, foreign, alien, unknown, unheard-of, different, exceptional, extraordinary, quaint, eccentric, bizarre, outr, weird, fantastic, unusual, singular, unique; freakish, grotesque, barbarous; Colloq far-out, camp(y), kinky: Those youngsters wear the most outlandish hair-dos you have ever seen.
outlaw n. 1 criminal, gangster, robber, desperado, bandit, highwayman, brigand, footpad, picaroon, pirate, fugitive (from justice or the law), renegade, US road-agent: In Westerns, the sheriff always wins out over the outlaws. --v. 2 forbid, disallow, ban, interdict, bar, exclude, prohibit, proscribe: Some countries have outlawed prostitution, but with little effect.
outlet n. 1 way out, exit, egress, loophole, relief, escape, escape hatch, vent, opening, release, safety-valve, discharge: There seemed to be no outlet for his anger but to throw the cushion at her. The main outlet of the Great Lakes is the St Lawrence river. 2 retailer, shop, store, market: The company is having difficulty finding outlets that will stock its products.
outlook n. 1 view, position, point of view, viewpoint, prospect, perspective, slant, angle, standpoint, attitude, opinion: His outlook on the situation in the Middle East is bound to be somewhat biased. 2 prospect, forecast, expectation(s): What is the outlook for the value of the pound sterling over the next year?
out-of-the-way adj. 1 untravelled, unfrequented, isolated, lonely, outlying, obscure, hidden, secluded, inaccessible: She now lives in some out-of-the-way village in the Himalayas. 2 unusual, odd, peculiar, extraordinary, far-fetched, remarkable, outr, exceptional, outlandish, strange, rare, uncommon, exotic, unheard-of, unconventional, queer, weird, bizarre: His latest book is a treatise on some out-of-the-way subject.
output n. 1 production, result, yield, crop, harvest: Nobody was quite ready for such a massive output. 2 productivity, achievement, efficiency: Job insecurity has diminished her output. --v. 3 put out, produce, generate, create, manufacture, yield, achieve: Our new laser printer outputs about ten pages a minute.
outrageous adj. 1 excessive, extravagant, immoderate, exorbitant, enormous, unreasonable, preposterous, shocking, extreme, unwarranted, exaggerated, unconscionable, inordinate, intolerable, disgraceful, shameful, scandalous: The prices at that restaurant are absolutely outrageous. 2 vicious, cruel, heinous, atrocious, barbaric, inhuman, abusive, beastly, horrible, horrid, horrendous, iniquitous, villainous, wicked, evil, egregious, flagrant, grievous, infamous, execrable, abominable, grisly, hideous, monstrous, vile, unthinkable, foul, awful, unspeakable, appalling, offensive, indecent: The captives suffered the most outrageous treatment at the hands of their conquerors. 3 indecent, offensive, immoral, rude, indelicate, obnoxious, profane, obscene, dirty, filthy, lewd, salacious, foul, smutty, scatological, pornographic, objectionable, repellent, repulsive, nauseating, nauseous, nasty, gross, revolting, shocking, repugnant, disgusting, fulsome, perverted, depraved, dissolute, degenerate, dissipated, debauched, profligate; explicit, unrestrained; foul-mouthed, thersitical, insulting; unseemly, inappropriate, indecorous, improper, naughty, appalling, embarrassing; Literary Fescennine, US shy-making: The sermon denounced the outrageous films, books, magazines, and television programmes to which children are exposed. Warren sometimes says the most outrageous things.
outright adj. 1 unqualified, total, unreserved, unrestricted, full, complete, unconditional, unequivocal, clear, direct, definite, unmistakable or unmistakeable: The duke is the outright owner of the property. 2 undisguised, unmitigated, utter, consummate, pure, out-and-out, all-out, sheer, absolute, stark, bald, thorough, arrant, thoroughgoing, through-and-through, downright, direct, definite, unmistakable or unmistakeable: Her outright refusal to provide further help was met with dismay. --adv. 3 directly, at once, immediately, instantaneously, instantly, then and there or there and then, straight or right away, on the spot, right off: One passenger was killed outright, the other died later in hospital. 4 completely, entirely, exactly, precisely, totally, in toto, utterly, baldly, starkly, consummately, purely, thoroughly, directly, unhesitatingly, quite, absolutely, explicitly, categorically, straightforwardly, plainly, openly, forthrightly, unequivocally, unambiguously, candidly: I wish that Henry wasn't so reticent and would say outright what he means. 5 unrestrictedly, unqualifiedly, unreservedly, unconditionally: The duke owns the property outright.
outside n. 1 exterior, face, facing, shell, skin, case, casing, surface, front; faade: What is that on the outside of the box? The outside of the house is painted white. 2 aspect, appearance, look, demeanour, face, front, faade, mien, mask, disguise, false front, pretence: One cannot tell what people are really like from the outside they present to the world. 3 extreme, limit, most, maximum, utmost, best, worst, longest: At the outside, you shouldn't pay more than half your income for housing. I'll wait for her for an hour at the outside. 4 the world at large: We had to bring in someone from the outside to complete the work. --adj. 5 exterior, external, out of doors, outdoor: They have added an outside swimming-pool to the house. 6 maximum, maximal, highest, best, worst, greatest, most, largest, longest, furthest or farthest: What was their outside estimate for replacing the roof? The outside time for driving here from London is about an hour. 7 private, home, cottage, secondary, peripheral, independent, freelance: Her outside job pays more than her regular work. 8 unlikely, remote, faint, Colloq slim: He has an outside chance of beating the world record. 9 foreign, alien, outward; unconnected, excluded, uninvolved, disinvolved, independent, separate, different: I'm worried that Phil might be subject to outside influences. An outside contractor is doing the work. --adv. 10 outdoors, out of doors: Perhaps you'd like to step outside to discuss the matter further?
outskirts n.pl. periphery, edge, environs, outer reaches, vicinity, border(s), suburb(s), exurb(s), general area or neighbourhood, purlieus, fringes, vicinage, faubourg(s): The university is on the outskirts of the city.
outspoken adj. candid, frank, open, free, direct, unreserved, unreticent, straightforward, forthright, explicit, specific, plain-spoken, plain-speaking, unequivocal, unceremonious, unambiguous, unsubtle, uninhibited, unshrinking, blunt, bold, brusque, brash, undiplomatic, tactless, crude: Linda was always quite outspoken in her opinions of her neighbours. Her outspoken observations are a fruitful source of gossip.
outstrip v. overcome, surpass, outdo, outperform, outshine, outclass, better, beat, transcend, best, worst, exceed, excel, outdistance, overtake, top, cap, put in the shade, eclipse: Bannister again outstripped everyone in the race.
outwardly adv. externally, apparently, visibly, superficially, ostensibly, evidently, seemingly, on the surface, to all appearances, to all intents and purposes: Though the town was outwardly quiet, we had a feeling of ominous foreboding.
outweigh v. overcome, outbalance, overbalance, overweigh, tip the scales, preponderate (over), surpass, prevail (over), override, take precedence (over), compensate (for), make up for: His feeling for his wife outweighed all else in his life. outwit v. See outsmart, above.
ovation n. applause, acclamation, acclaim, plaudits, cheers, cheering, clapping, laudation, praise, kudos, Colloq (big) hand: At the conclusion of the concerto, the pianist was given a standing ovation.
overall adj. total, complete, comprehensive, all-inclusive, inclusive, whole, entire, all-embracing, blanket: The overall cost, including materials and labour, came to more than I had expected.
overbearing adj. repressive, domineering, bullying, imperious, officious, high and mighty, high-handed, overweening, magisterial, lordly, authoritarian, wilful, despotic, dogmatic, autocratic, tyrannical, dictatorial, peremptory, arbitrary, assertive, arrogant, cavalier, haughty, superior, supercilious, pretentious, Colloq bossy, pushy, hoity-toity, highfalutin or hifalutin, snooty, Slang snotty: His temper was harsh and severe, his manner haughty and overbearing.
overcome v. 1 beat, defeat, conquer, overpower, subdue, worst, best, triumph over, win (out) (over), prevail (over), overthrow, overwhelm, vanquish, get the better or best of, whip, drub, rout, break, subjugate, suppress, crush, master, Colloq lick: If we do not overcome these temptations, they will overcome us. The superior force easily overcame the tiny group of defenders. --adj. 2 beaten, defeated, overwhelmed, subdued, worsted, bested; affected, speechless, swept off one's feet, rendered helpless, overpowered, moved, influenced, at a loss (for words), Colloq bowled over: The victim's parents were overcome with grief when the casualty list was published. Colin was too overcome to speak at the award presentation.
overcritical adj. supercritical, hypercritical, captious, carping, niggling, cavilling, querulous, fault-finding, finicky, fussy, hair-splitting, difficult, fastidious, harsh, severe, demanding, exacting, small, small-minded, US and Canadian picayune, Colloq picky, nit-picking, pernickety or US also persnickety: You should not be overcritical of Maddy - she's only a child.
overdo v. 1 carry to excess, overindulge, be intemperate, go or carry to extremes, overact, exaggerate, carry or go too far, overreach, not know when to stop, paint the lily, gild refined gold, out-Herod Herod, Colloq go overboard, do to death, lay it on thick, lay it on with a trowel; go off the deep end: Exercise a little judgement and try not to overdo it. 2 overwork, do too much, overtax, exhaust, fatigue, overload, overburden, Colloq bite off more than one can chew, burn the candle at both ends: Don't overdo it or you'll feel the results tomorrow.
overeat v. gorge, binge, gormandize, stuff oneself, overindulge, guzzle, feast, wolf down, overfeed, do the gavage, Colloq pack away, Brit pig, US pig out: People not only overeat but they tend to eat the wrong foods.
overhang v. 1 jut (out), beetle, bulge (out), project (out), protrude, stick out, loom (out), extend (out), hang (out) over: The balcony overhangs the sea. 2 impend, threaten, menace, imperil, loom: His life was overhung by the threat of blackmail. --n. 3 ledge, projection, bulge, protrusion, extension: A swallow nested under the overhang of the roof.
overhead adv. 1 (up) above, (up) in the air or sky, high up, on high, aloft, skyward: The aeroplanes passed overhead at dawn. --adj. 2 elevated, raised, upper: The crane travels on an overhead track. --n. 3 Brit overheads, US overhead. (basic or fixed) costs, operating cost(s), expense(s), outlay, disbursement(s), running cost(s), expenditure(s), maintenance, cost(s) of doing business: One way to increase profits is by reducing overheads.
overlap v. 1 lap (over), overlie, overlay, shingle, Technical imbricate, strobilate: Note how the upper tiles overlap the lower to keep the rain out. 2 coincide, correspond, intersect: Our work shifts overlap by four hours. --n. 3 lap, flap, overlay, fly (front) or Brit flies, imbrication: The overlap conceals the buttons that close the skirt on the side.
overlook v. 1 miss, slip up on, omit, neglect, slight, disregard, fail to notice, ignore, pass over, leave out, forget, Colloq pass up: You overlooked an error on the first page. 2 blink at, wink at, let go (by), let pass, let ride, turn a blind eye to, shut (one's) eyes to, pretend not to notice, take no notice of, ignore, disregard, forgive, pardon, excuse, permit, allow, forget about, write off, condone, make allowances (for), let bygones be bygones, gloss over: I shall overlook your slowness if you will work late to compensate for it. 3 front on (to), face, give upon, command or afford a view of, look out on or over, have as a vista or view: My room overlooks the lake.
overpower v. 1 overcome, overwhelm, beat, vanquish, conquer, defeat, crush, put down, worst, best, prevail, master, quell, subdue, subjugate: The thugs easily overpowered the elderly couple and took their money. 2 overcome, overwhelm, dumbfound or dumfound, daze, stagger, amaze, stun, stupefy, nonplus, strike, Colloq floor: I was quite overpowered by the grandeur of the house.
overrate v. overvalue, make too much of, exaggerate the worth or value of, attach too much importance to, overprize, assess too highly: They insist that his value to the company is overrated and that he should be dismissed.
overriding adj. dominant, dominating, predominant, predominating, compelling, prevailing, primary, prime, most important, overruling, overwhelming, paramount, preponderant, principal, cardinal, main, chief: His overriding reason for buying the larger dictionary was that it made a better doorstop.
oversee v. direct, manage, watch (over), keep an eye on, administer, superintend, run, supervise, operate, manipulate, handle, control: We employed Gertrude to oversee our offices in Frankfurt.
overshadow v. 1 dominate, outshine, eclipse, dwarf, diminish, minimize, put in or throw into or leave the shade, steal the limelight from, tower over or above, excel: The Crown, overshadowed by the great barons, turned for aid to the Church. 2 spoil, blight, ruin, mar, take (all) the pleasure from, put a damper on, take the edge off, impair, take the enjoyment out of: The news from the east overshadowed everyone's spirits at the party.
overstate v. exaggerate, magnify, hyperbolize, embroider, overstress, colour, make (too) much of, overdraw, overemphasize, stretch, enlarge, inflate, blow up: They might have overstated the problem by asking for a 24-hour police guard.
overt adj. apparent, evident, plain, clear, obvious, manifest, clear-cut, unconcealed, patent, open, visible, observable, public: Moving the troops to the border may be considered an act of overt hostility.
overthrow v. 1 defeat, beat, rout, conquer, overpower, master, bring down, depose, oust, overwhelm, unseat, unhorse, topple, overturn, dethrone, thrash, worst, best: The new leader was overthrown by the partisans in two weeks. Cotswold Rangers overthrew Kent United in last night's match at Hurley. --n. 2 defeat, rout, conquest, deposing, ousting, unseating, toppling, overturn, overturning, downfall, end, ruin, fall, collapse, destruction, suppression, quashing, crushing, subjugation, US ouster: The overthrow of the military regime was followed by weeks of rioting and looting.
overture n. Often, overtures. approach, advance, offer, proposal, proposition, tender: While they were winning, they rejected all peace overtures.
overwhelm v. 1 overpower, overcome, overtax, devastate, stagger, crush, defeat, destroy, subdue, suppress, quash, quell, conquer, beat, bring down, prostrate, weigh down, oppress: Overwhelmed by grief, she dissolved into tears. 2 inundate, overcome, engulf, submerge, flood (over); deluge, swamp, bury, immerse: A feeling of terror suddenly overwhelmed me as I watched my safety rope fray and break. In only a few hours the rising waters had completely overwhelmed the house. 3 overcome, stagger, astound, astonish, dumbfound or dumfound, shock, stun, bewilder, confuse, confound, nonplus, surprise, take aback, Colloq bowl over, knock off one's feet or pins, blow one's mind, discombobulate, Brit knock for six: We were overwhelmed by the friendly reception that awaited our return.
overwork v. 1 overexert, overstrain, overburden, oppress, overtax, overload, overuse: We were so overworked that the quality had to suffer. 2 slave (away), burn the midnight oil, lucubrate: She insisted on overworking in order to get the project finished on time. --n. 3 overexertion, overstrain, strain: I was ready to drop from overwork.
owner n. possessor, holder; proprietor, proprietress: The papers have been returned to their rightful owner. Who is the owner of the property? pace n. 1 step, stride: Please walk forward two paces. 2 rate (of speed), tempo, speed, velocity, Colloq clip: We were proceeding at a pace of five miles per hour. --v. 3 walk, stride, tread; traverse: Alistair paced up and down nervously, waiting for word from the surgeon. 4 measure, gauge or gage, judge, rate, estimate, determine, reckon, figure, compute: I was trying to pace myself to conserve some energy for a sprint finish.
package n. 1 packet, parcel, box, container, case, carton, bundle: I am donating a package of clothing to the relief fund. 2 combination, unit, package deal: Included in the package from the car dealer are several luxury features. --v. 3 wrap, pack, containerize, carton, case, encase, enclose, include; combine, unite, coupled, incorporate: More and more merchandise comes packaged in plastic these days. A special sponge is packaged with the cleaning liquid.
packet n. 1 package, parcel, pack, batch: We found a packet of your old love-letters in a trunk in the lumber room. 2 loads, lot(s), great deal, fortune, mint, Colloq bundle, pretty penny, pile(s), tidy sum, king's ransom, Brit bomb: He lost a packet on that property when they built a sewage plant alongside it.
pad n. 1 cushion, pillow, wad, wadding, stuffing, padding, filling, filler: Wrap a soft cotton pad over the wound to protect it. 2 writing-pad, note-pad, memo pad, block (of paper), jotter, US filler: You'd best take a pad with you to make notes at the lecture. 3 flat, apartment, room(s), home, place, quarters, Colloq hang-out, Brit digs or diggings, Slang US flop: A few friends are crashing at my pad while they're in town. --v. 4 cushion, wad, stuff, fill; upholster: The chair seats are padded with foam rubber, but the arms are bare. 5 Sometimes, pad out. expand, inflate, stretch, dilate, lengthen, protract, extend, blow up, flesh out, puff up, augment, spin out, amplify: He pads his weekly newspaper column with trivia in order to fill the space.
paddy n. rage, (fit of) temper, fit, tantrum, Colloq Brit paddywhack or paddywack, wax: She was in a proper paddy when she found out what you'd done.
page n. 1 leaf, folio, side, sheet, verso or recto: On which page does the index begin? 2 episode, phase, period, time, stage, point, era, epoch, age, chapter: The early 1940s were among the darkest pages in Britain's history. --v. 3 paginate, folio, number: Roman numerals were used in paging the preface to the book.
pageant n. spectacle, display, grandeur, tableau, show, parade, procession, ceremony, formality, ritual, event, affair, extravaganza, presentation, gala: The children stage a medieval mystery play as a part of the annual Christmas pageant.
pain n. 1 hurt, suffering, discomfort, soreness, ache, aching, pang, spasm, smarting, cramp: I feel the pain in my back from lifting that box. 2 anguish, agony, affliction, distress, grief, woe, suffering, misery, travail, wretchedness, despair, torment, tribulation, trial, torture, dolour, discomposure, ordeal, disquiet: No one who has not experienced it can imagine the pain of losing a child. 3 irritation, vexation, annoyance, bother, nuisance, pest, Colloq pain in the neck, headache, drag, bore, Taboo slang pain in the Brit arse or US ass: What a pain it is that you have forgotten your keys again! David can really be a pain when he goes on about the book he's writing. 4 pains. effort, trouble, exertion, toil, labour: She went to great pains to make our stay comfortable. --v. 5 hurt, distress, grieve, wound, injure; trouble, depress, sadden, sorrow, cut to the quick: It pained us to learn of Mrs McArthur's illness.
painfully adv. agonizingly, distressingly, disagreeably, unpleasantly, unfortunately, sadly, woefully, lamentably, ruefully, unhappily: I became painfully aware that much of the relief destined for the poor never reached them.
painless adj. trouble-free, easy, simple, comfortable, effortless, Colloq easy as 1, 2, 3 or as ABC, easy as pie, a piece of cake, pushover, child's play, Slang cinch, no sweat: The procedure for assembling the bicycle is relatively painless.
paint n. 1 colour, tint, dye, colouring, pigment, stain: I bought the paint and brushes, and started work on the kitchen walls. 2 coating, coat, surface; enamel: The rust has come through the paint here and there. 3 make-up, cosmetics, maquillage, greasepaint, Colloq warpaint, face: Sheila is in her room putting on some paint before we go out. --v. 4 depict, portray, picture, show, represent, delineate, render, draw, limn, characterize, describe: Whistler painted a portrait of my grandmother. Correspondents painted a very grim picture of the plight of the hostages. 5 coat, brush, apply, cover, daub: The doctor painted the area with some medication that soothed the pain. 6 colour, tint, dye, stain, decorate: We are planning to paint the nursery pale blue. 7 paint the town red. make merry, carouse, revel, go on a spree, go out on the town, Colloq whoop it up, live it up, (go on a) pub-crawl, step out, Slang make whoopee, go on a bender or drunk or binge, booze it up: Saturday nights a few of the boys would go out and paint the town red till the wee hours.
pal n. 1 friend, consort, comrade, alter ego, crony, companion, amigo, playmate, classmate, Colloq chum, sidekick, mate, Chiefly US and Canadian buddy: Jim left a little while ago with a few of his pals. --v. 2 pal (up) with or about or US around (with). associate (with), be or become friendly or friends (with), be or get or become on friendly or intimate terms (with), go (around or about) with, fraternize (with), consort (with), spend time together or with, keep company (with), Colloq hang out or about or around (with), knock about or around (with): Fiona and Isabel palled up last year. Do you still pal about with Timothy?
palatial adj. luxurious, de luxe, magnificent, splendid, stately, sumptuous, opulent, majestic, magnificent, grand, elegant, palatine, Slang posh, ritzy, swanky, classy: After winning the pools, they moved into a palatial house in Belgravia.
pale adj. 1 colourless, white, wan, sallow, waxen, livid, ashen, ashy, pallid, bloodless, whitish, pasty, whey-faced, washed out, anaemic, blanched, drained, ghostly, ghastly, peaky or peakish, peaked, cadaverous: If you had been through an ordeal like that, you'd look pale, too. 2 faint, light, dim, washed out, pastel: She was wearing a pale green evening gown tonight. 3 feeble, weak, flimsy, meagre, enfeebled, ineffective, ineffectual, puny, insignificant, paltry, lame, poor, inadequate, half-hearted, tame, spiritless, whey-faced, empty, sterile, lifeless, uninspired, anaemic, Colloq half-baked: The sequel was a pale imitation of the original film. --v. 4 blanch, blench, dim, whiten: He paled when they told him of the car crash. 5 diminish, lessen, fade (away), decrease, abate: The works of most modern writers pale in comparison with those of the Elizabethans.
pall n. 1 shroud, covering, mantle, cloth, veil: A black velvet pall covered the coffin. 2 gloomy or melancholy or sombre or grave or depressing air or mood or atmosphere; damper, cold water, Colloq wet blanket: The recently uncovered scandals have cast a pall over his successes in office.
paltry adj. trifling, trivial, petty, small, insignificant, worthless, pitiful, pathetic, pitiable, puny, sorry, wretched, miserable, inconsequential, inconsiderable, unimportant, meagre, mean, beggarly, base, low, contemptible, Colloq piddling, Brit twopenny, twopenny-halfpenny, mingy, US penny-ante, Slang Mickey Mouse: Despite his wealth, his charitable contributions are paltry. We all recognize Denison for the paltry pedant he is.
pamphlet n. booklet, brochure, tract, essay, folder, leaflet, circular; handbill, bill, notice, bulletin, advertisement, hand-out, ad, Brit advert, US flyer, throw-away: He was arrested for printing a pamphlet that denounced the government's repression of free speech. Yesterday we received our sixteenth pamphlet promoting replacement windows.
panache n. flourish, dash, lan, clat, chic, sophistication, savoir faire, savoir vivre, flamboyance, verve, style, cultivation, (good) taste, flair, smartness, boldness, self-assurance, swagger, vigour, liveliness, spirit, brio, gusto, zest, animation, enthusiasm, energy: Whatever needs to be done, you can count on Irena to carry it off with panache.
pander v. 1 Usually, pander to. satisfy, gratify, humour, indulge, fulfil, bow to, yield to, truckle to, cater to: She is tired of pandering to his every wish. 2 procure, pimp, solicit: I didn't believe he would sink so low as to pander for his business clients. --n. 3 panderer, pimp, procurer, solicitor, whoremonger, White slaver, Slang flesh-pedlar or US also flesh-peddler or flesh-pedler, Brit ponce, mack: The word pander is an eponym for Pandarus, who acted as a sycophantic go-between for Troilus in Chaucer's Troilus and Criseyde .
pang n. 1 pain, stab, ache, pinch, twinge, stitch, spasm: I felt a sharp pang of hunger. 2 qualm, hesitation, scruple, misgiving, remorse, regret, contrition, contriteness, self-reproach, mortification, guilt, anguish, discomfort, malaise: Does Claire feel the slightest pangs for treating him badly?
panic-stricken adj. panic-struck, terrified, alarmed, horrified, aghast, terror-stricken or terror-struck, panicky, frenzied, in a frenzy, hysterical, besides oneself with fear or terror, fearful, afraid, scared (stiff), petrified, horror-struck or horror-stricken, frightened or scared out of one's wits, appalled, stunned, stupefied, perturbed, unnerved, nervous, distressed, upset, jittery, jumpy, (all) worked up, Colloq in a cold sweat, in a flap, in a tizzy, Taboo slang scared shitless, shitting green: At the news of the leak at the nuclear plant, hundreds of panic-stricken people fled from the area.
pant v. 1 gasp, huff (and puff), blow, heave, breathe hard, wheeze: He was panting when he came into the room, having run up the stairs. 2 Usually, pant for or after. crave, hanker after, hunger or thirst for or after, yearn for, ache for, want, desire, covet, wish for, long or pine or sigh for, have one's heart set on, die for, be dying for, Colloq have a yen for, give one's eye-teeth or right arm for: Margery was the girl that all the boys panted after when we were ten.
paper n. 1 newspaper, tabloid, daily, weekly, journal, gazette, publication, periodical, newsletter, organ, Colloq rag, sheet: She is feature editor of a paper in Manchester. 2 Often, papers. a document(s), instrument, legal papers, form, certificate, deed, ownership papers; credential(s), identification: Bring the papers to my office for signing. His papers are not in order. Many people lost their papers during the war. b docket, files, dossier, record(s), archive(s): Your papers seem to have disappeared from our office. 3 stationery, letterhead, writing-paper, letter-paper, notepaper; foolscap; scrap or US also scratch paper; wrapping paper; gift-wrapping, gift-wrap; wallpaper: She wrote to me on the most beautiful engraved paper. We buy our Christmas paper from a museum shop. 4 article, composition, essay, assignment, report, thesis, study, tract, analysis, critique, exegesis, treatise, dissertation, disquisition, manuscript, MS or ms, autograph, holograph, typescript, script, speech: Adelaide will present her paper at the meeting of the Royal Academy this year. --v. 5 (hang) wallpaper, line; post, distribute: The entire area was papered with posters announcing the meeting.
parable n. allegory, fable, lesson, morality tale: When we first read Aesop's Fables we didn't know they were parables.
paradise n. 1 heaven, City of God, Zion, Elysium, Elysian Fields, happy hunting-grounds, Abraham's bosom, heavenly kingdom, Promised Land, Celestial City, New Jerusalem, Avalon, Valhalla, Hesperides, Isles or Islands of the Blessed, seventh heaven: People all have their own ideas of paradise, but everyone agrees it's a nice place to be. 2 heaven on earth, (Garden of) Eden, (land of) Goshen, Utopia, Shangri-La, Land of Beulah: Early settlers of California thought it a paradise. 3 bliss, happiness, rapture, heaven, delight, blessedness, ecstasy, seventh heaven, joy, dreamland, nirvana: Being with you has been sheer paradise.
paradoxical adj. contradictory, self-contradictory, conflicting, oxymoronic, impossible, improbable, incongruous, illogical, inconsistent, absurd, ambiguous, confusing, equivocal, enigmatic, puzzling, baffling, incomprehensible, bewildering, perplexing, mysterious, problematic: It would be true, though it might sound paradoxical, to say that the Norman Conquest made England Saxon.
parallel adj. 1 similar, corresponding, congruent, analogous, analogic(al), correspondent, like, matching, homologous, coordinate, equivalent, coequal, proportional, proportionate, pari passu, mutatis mutandis, in proportion, uniform; contemporary or cotemporary, contemporaneous or cotemporaneous: The situation in Northern Ireland could be compared with a parallel situation in Lebanon. --n. 2 analogue, match, homologue, equivalent, complement, counterpart, equal, coequal: Campbell found many parallels among the legendary heroes of other cultures. 3 analogy, parallelism, equivalence, complementarity, relationship, kinship, correspondence, resemblance, likeness, similarity, symmetry, equality, coequality, parity, correlation; proportion, balance, equiponderance, equipoise, counterbalance, offset: One can draw parallels between the human arm, the fish's fin, and the bird's wing. By way of parallel, consider the flood in the Bible and that in the Gilgamesh epic. --v. 4 correspond to or with, match, equate to or with, be likened to, correlate to or with, compare with or to, imitate, repeat, echo, iterate, reiterate, duplicate, follow, agree with; keep pace with, conform (to), balance, set off, offset, even off or up, be accompanied by, coincide with, Colloq jibe with: In many respects, your attitudes towards life parallel mine when I was your age. A decrease in the rate of inflation supposedly parallels a rise in interest rates.
paramount adj. pre-eminent, chief, supreme, dominant, main, predominant, cardinal, first, prime, primary, principal, essential, vital, requisite, basic: The company feel that the independence of researchers is paramount. It is of paramount importance that you study trigonometry before calculus.
paraphernalia n. usually pl equipment, apparatus, accessories, outfit, appliances, utensils, gear, rig, material(s), matriel, things, tackle, equipage, accoutrements, effects, chattels, possessions, belongings, appurtenances, trappings, property, baggage, impedimenta, supplies, stuff, Colloq junk, Brit rubbish, clobber, Slang crap, Taboo slang US shit: Bring along your scuba paraphernalia. It took us a month just to pack up all the paraphernalia we had in the flat.
parasite n. leech, hanger-on, Colloq freeloader, sponger or sponge, bloodsucker, cadger, scrounger or scrounge, barnacle, jackal, hyena or hyaena: That parasite lives off Gemma's money and has never worked a day in his life.
parch v. dry (out or up), desiccate, dehydrate, exsiccate; scorch, sear, burn, bake; shrivel (up), wither: The earth was parched by the unrelenting sun.
pare v. 1 trim, peel, skin, shave (off), shuck; decorticate, excoriate: Pare the apples and then grate them coarsely. 2 Often, pare down. reduce, diminish, decrease, cut (back or down), curtail, slash (back), lower, lessen: Since his illness, Bob has pared down his time at the office. We'll have to pare our prices to stay competitive in the present climate.
parenting n. (of children) rearing, upbringing, raising, nurturing: Brian and Betty take their parenting very seriously.
park n. 1 garden, green(s), common(s), preserve, reserve, greensward, parkland, woodland, estate, Chiefly Brit reservation: Twice a day he strolls through the nearby park. 2 Brit car park, US and Canadian and New Zealand parking-lot: I shall meet you in the car park at the railway station. --v. 3 leave, put, deposit, store: It is illegal to park in this street.
parley n. 1 conference, discussion, dialogue, palaver, deliberation, meeting, colloquy, colloquium, confabulation, powwow, talk(s), Colloq huddle, confab: The issue will be decided at the executive council's parley. --v. 2 confer, discuss, palaver, deliberate, talk (over), negotiate, deal, Colloq huddle: Would Sitting Bull parley with General Custer?
parliamentary adj. formal, ordered, orderly, procedural, conforming, conformist, US according to Roberts Rules of Order: The debate must follow parliamentary procedure.
parlous adj. perilous, risky, precarious, uncertain, dangerous, hazardous, difficult, ticklish, awkward, Colloq chancy, iffy, Slang hairy: These are parlous times in the Middle East.
parody n. 1 burlesque, lampoon, satire, caricature, mockery, mimicry, Colloq take-off, spoof, Brit send-up: The more serious the intent of the original author's work, the easier it is to write a parody of it. 2 travesty, mockery, feeble or poor imitation, distortion, perversion, corruption, debasement: The Inquisition was a parody of justice and of religion. --v. 3 burlesque, lampoon, satirize, caricature, mock, mimic, ape, ridicule, deride, laugh at, poke fun at, guy, scoff at, sneer at, rib, tease, twit, roast, pillory, make a laughing-stock (of), make sport of, make fun of, make a monkey (out) of, Archaic fleer, Colloq take off, spoof, kid, Brit send up: Swift parodied English political figures and policies of the day in Gulliver's Travels .
parrot n. 1 imitator, mimic, Colloq copycat: She never has an original idea of her own: she's a mere parrot of others' fashions and fancies. --v. 2 imitate, mimic, ape, copy, echo, repeat, reiterate: Mick doesn't understand the issues and just parrots what he hears on TV.
partake v. 1 Usually, partake in. share (in), participate (in), take (a) part (in), enter (in or into): We share each other's burdens and partake in each other's joys. 2 Usually, partake of. a receive, get, have a share or portion or part (of), share: We were invited to partake of a meagre repast. b evoke, suggest, hint at, intimate, imply, possess or have the quality of: Greater knowledge often partakes of insolence.
partiality n. 1 prejudice, bias, inclination, favouritism, predilection, predisposition, leaning, preference: The losers of the contest accused the judges of partiality. 2 preference, taste, relish, liking, fondness, appreciation, fancy, love, eye, weakness, soft spot, penchant; fetish or fetich: Alas, my wife has acquired a partiality for emeralds.
participant n. 1 participator, partaker, sharer, party, contributor, prime mover: The chief participants in the recent terrorist attack are in custody. --adj. 2 Usually, participant in or of. participating, partaking, sharing: As a shareholder, he will be participant in the profits.
particle n. atom, molecule, scintilla, spark, mote, suggestion, hint, suspicion, gleam, bit, crumb, jot, tittle, whit, mite, speck, dot, spot, iota, grain, morsel, shred, sliver, scrap, Colloq smidgen or smidgin: There isn't the slightest particle of evidence linking them with the murder.
particularly adv. 1 especially, specially, exceptionally, peculiarly, singularly, distinctively, uniquely, unusually, uncommonly, notably, outstandingly, markedly, extraordinarily, very, extremely, strikingly, surprisingly, amazingly: Susannah went through a particularly bad patch but she's better now. Holroyd is a good writer, particularly of biography. 2 in particular, specifically, especially, principally, mainly, exceptionally, expressly, explicitly, notably, markedly; only, solely: Maeterlinck was particularly interested in bees.
partisan n. 1 partizan, devotee, follower, supporter, adherent, backer, champion, enthusiast, fan, zealot, fanatic, Chiefly US and Canadian booster, Colloq US rooter: He has long been a partisan of surrealism. 2 guerrilla or guerilla, freedom fighter, underground or resistance fighter, irregular: During the war the Yugoslav partisans were led by Marshal Tito. --adj. 3 one-sided, factional, biased, tendentious, sectarian, opinionated, partial, bigoted, prejudiced, parochial, myopic, short-sighted, near-sighted, narrow, narrow-minded, limited: She refuses to become involved in partisan politics. 4 guerrilla or guerilla, freedom, underground, resistance, irregular: They were both members of the Maquis, the French partisan group who fought against the Nazis.
partner n. 1 sharer, partaker, associate, colleague, participant, accomplice, accessory, confederate, comrade, ally, collaborator, companion, team-mate, fellow, alter ego, friend, Colloq pal, sidekick, mate, US and Canadian buddy, cohort: His partner in the bank robbery was arrested this morning. 2 wife or husband, spouse, mate, helpmate, helpmeet, consort: She became my life partner more than 50 years ago. 3 companion, fellow-dancer: Won't you change partners and dance with me?
parvenu n. 1 parvenue, upstart, arriviste, nouveau riche, intruder, adventurer, social climber: Usually one generation has to pass before a parvenu is accepted by the class with which his money associates him. --adj. 2 nouveau riche, upstart, intrusive: This parvenu industrialist tried to use his wealth to make up for his lack of refinement.
passable adj. 1 satisfactory, acceptable, tolerable, all right, adequate, admissible, allowable, presentable, average, fair (enough), fair to middling, fairly good, middling, not bad, unexceptional, sufficient, indifferent, Colloq OK or okay, so so: I thought the play passable, but not up to his usual standard. 2 traversable, navigable, open, unobstructed, unblocked: The channel is passable till October, when the river freezes over.
pass adj. old-fashioned, unfashionable, dated, out of date, behind the times, outmoded, obsolete, obsolescent, antiquated, archaic, dmod, quaint, antique, superseded, Colloq out, not or no longer in, old hat, back number: She persisted in dressing in a style that had been pass at the turn of the century.
passing adj. 1 disappearing, vanishing, ephemeral, brief, going, fading (away), slipping away, short-lived, expiring, transient, transitory, temporary, momentary, fleeting, transitional, impermanent: I hope that Anne's obsession with acid rock is a passing fancy. 2 hasty, superficial, cursory, casual, quick, fleeting, brief, summary, abrupt, dismissive; glancing: The speaker paid only passing attention to those he disagreed with. 3 in passing. by the way, incidentally, by the by, parenthetically, en passant: I might mention, in passing, that my train was late owing to the strike. --n. 4 death, dying, demise, end, loss, expiry, expiration, dying out, extinction, disappearance, vanishment: Her passing is a great sorrow to all of us. Who thought we would live to see the passing of the steam engine?
passionate adj. 1 ardent, eager, intense, fervid, zealous, avid, eager, earnest, zestful, feverish, fanatic(al), vehement, impassioned, emotional, animated, spirited, enthusiastic, vigorous, invigorated, energetic: Passionate environmentalists campaign for better governmental control of carbon dioxide emissions. 2 aroused, lustful, lecherous, erotic, sexual, amorous, sensual, Colloq hot: She tried to resist his passionate advances. 3 quick-tempered, irascible, hotheaded, fiery, testy, huffy or huffish, peevish, cranky, peppery, choleric, touchy, bilious, snappish, volatile, cross, temperamental, irritable, quarrelsome, pugnacious, argumentative, contentious, belligerent, Rare atrabilious or atrabiliar: Valerie gets into a passionate mood whenever she thinks she is being treated unjustly.
password n. watchword, shibboleth, open sesame, countersign: If you don't know the password, the guard won't let you in.
pastiche n. mixture, medley, blend, compound, composite, patchwork, olla podrida, pot-pourri, motley, miscellany, omnium gatherum, mlange, gallimaufry, farrago, mishmash, hotchpotch or US and Canadian hodgepodge, tangle, Colloq mess: The room was furnished in a pastiche of styles from every imaginable period.
pastor n. vicar, clergyman, clergywoman, parson, minister, churchman, churchwoman, rector, canon, reverend, father, divine, ecclesiastic, priest, bishop: The pastor led the congregation in prayer.
pasture n. meadow, meadow-land, pasture land, grassland, grass, lea, range; pasturage: How much pasture is needed for 200 head of cattle?
pat v. 1 tap, touch, dab, pet, stroke, caress: Being short, he hated it when people affectionately patted him on the head. Pat down the coverlet to smooth out the wrinkles. 2 pat on the back. congratulate, commend, praise, compliment, encourage, reassure: The sales manager patted me on the back for clinching the contract. --n. 3 tap, touch, dab, stroke, caress: Give the dog a pat and he'll leave you alone. 4 (small) piece, patty, lump, cake, portion; patty: The waiter put a pat of butter on my plate. 5 pat on the back. commendation, praise, compliment, flattery, encouragement, credit, reassurance, approval, endorsement, recognition; honeyed words: I was expecting a big bonus, but all I got was a pat on the back.
patch n. 1 piece, scrap, reinforcement; shred, snip, snippet, tatter; pad: Mother sewed colourful patches over the holes in my jeans. 2 area, section, segment, plat, plot, lot, tract, ground, parcel, field: All he ever wanted was a little house on a little patch of land. 3 responsibility, area, bailiwick, territory: The handling of customer complaints is in your patch, Gordon. 4 period, interval, spell, stage, episode, time; experience: She went through a bad patch shortly after Starkey died. --v. 5 patch up or over, mend, repair, vamp, revamp, darn, sew (up), reinforce, cover: I had my trousers patched where the dog bit me. Her father always wore the same patched jacket to the club. 6 Often, patch up. fix (up), doctor, jury-rig, improvise, knock together or up: Can you patch it up so I can drive it home? 7 patch up. settle, set right or straight, straighten out, reconcile, resolve, heal; come or bring to terms, bury the hatchet, kiss and make up, call a truce: Will the two girls ever patch up their differences?
patent n. 1 certificate of invention, letters patent, trade name, trade mark, copyright, US service mark; licence, permit, charter, franchise, grant; control: My brother holds the patent on a new piece of laboratory equipment. You think you have a patent on misery, but I have news for you. --adj. 2 obvious, clear, transparent, manifest, apparent, plain, evident, self-evident, unmistakable or unmistakeable, unequivocal, explicit, palpable, tangible, physical, conspicuous, flagrant, blatant, prominent: The results are as patent as the fact that two and two make four.
paternity n. fatherhood, fathership; parentage, descent, heritage, line, lineage, extraction, family, stock, strain, blood, patrilineage: The child's paternity was established through DNA tests.
pathetic adj. 1 moving, stirring, affecting, affective, touching, emotional, emotive, poignant, tragic, heart-rending, heart-breaking, pitiful, pitiable, piteous, plaintive, wretched, miserable, sorrowful, grievous, sad, doleful, dolorous, mournful, woeful, lamentable: The boat people told a pathetic tale of the hardship of weeks in the open sea. 2 meagre, paltry, feeble, inadequate, poor, petty, puny, sorry, piddling, Colloq measly, Slang crummy: He made a pathetic effort to pull himself together. A return of three per cent a year is pathetic.
patient adj. 1 resigned, submissive, stoical, long-suffering, compliant, acquiescent, passive, self-possessed, philosophical, serene, unaggressive: The staff who handle complaints must be extremely patient. 2 diligent, dogged, tenacious, persistent, assiduous, sedulous, steadfast, staunch, perseverant, unwavering, unswerving, constant, unfaltering, unfailing, untiring, tireless, indefatigable, pertinacious, determined, resolved, resolute, firm, unyielding: Be patient, and don't do anything rash. 3 forbearing, tolerant, forgiving, lenient, accommodating: We have been patient long enough and must now put a stop to the vandalism. --n. 4 invalid, sufferer, case, valetudinarian: Doctors were called in to treat patients who developed the symptoms.
patriotic adj. nationalist(ic), loyalist; flag-waving, jingoist(ic), chauvinist(ic): The fact that they criticize the government may show that they are more rather than less patriotic.
patron n. 1 patroness, benefactor, benefactress, philanthropist, Maecenas, protector, supporter, defender, advocate, champion, guardian (angel), sponsor, backer, promoter, sympathizer, friend, US booster; friend at court; Colloq angel: Lady Agnes is a well-known patron of the arts. 2 customer, client, purchaser, buyer, patronizer, habitu, regular, frequenter: The patrons habituate her shop because of the bargains to be found there.
patter v. 1 tiptoe; scurry, scuttle, skip, trip: I could hear the squirrels pattering across the metal roof. 2 spatter, pitter-patter, tap, pit-a-pat; beat, pelt: The rain pattered on the tent with increasing intensity. --n. 3 spatter, spattering, pit-a-pat, pitter-patter, tattoo, drum, thrum, beat, beating, tap, ratatat, tap-tap: The rhythmical patter of the rain lulled me to sleep.
pattern n. 1 model, original, archetype, prototype, exemplar, paragon, ideal, standard, yardstick, criterion, gauge, measure: Their life together could serve as a pattern for any couple. 2 figure, motif, design, device, decoration, ornament: The pattern of the wallpaper clashes with that of the curtains. 3 system, order, arrangement, plan, theme; repetition, consistency, orderliness, regularity, sequence, cycle: By carefully noting the movements of the heavenly bodies, ancient observers were able to detect a pattern. 4 blueprint, diagram, plan, layout, design, draft, guide, template or templet, stencil, mould, matrix: These new lighting fixtures are made to a 19th-century pattern. 5 sample, example, instance, specimen, representation: Were you able to match up your fabric pattern with one of those in the tailor's book? 6 layout, configuration, figure, formation, composition: The geese often flew in a V-shaped pattern. --v. 7 Often, pattern on. model on, imitate, copy, mimic, duplicate, follow, emulate, simulate: She tried to pattern her behaviour on that of her older sister. 8 decorate, figure, ornament: Cynthia's gifts were wrapped in a beautifully patterned paper.
pauper n. have-not, indigent, down-and-out(er), bankrupt, insolvent; beggar, mendicant; tramp, hobo, vagrant, US bum: The mortgage payments on such a lavish house soon made him a pauper.
pave v. 1 macadamize, tarmac, asphalt, tile, flag, concrete, cover, surface: Europeans thought that the streets of America were paved with gold. 2 pave the way for or to. prepare or smooth the way for, open the door for, make easy or easier for; facilitate, ease: If I talk to him first, perhaps I can pave the way for you to make your proposal.
pawn n. tool, cat's-paw, puppet, instrument, dummy, dupe, Colloq stooge: He's not important: he's just being used as a pawn by the powerful interests involved.
payable adj. due, owed, owing, outstanding, unpaid, receivable, mature: This bill is payable at the end of the month.
pay-off n. 1 See pay, 12, above. 2 result, outcome, upshot, conclusion, wind-up, settlement, final reckoning, Colloq punch-line, crunch, grand finale, Slang US and Canadian kicker: The pay-off was that permission to march on Sunday was denied. 3 bribe, graft, rebate; ransom, blood-money, Colloq kickback, hush money, Chiefly US payola, US plugola: The pay-off was always made in cash, in used notes.F= peace n. 1 serenity, tranquillity, calm, calmness, placidity or placidness, peace of mind, quiet, peacefulness, peaceableness, stillness: For a summer holiday, we enjoy the peace of the Lakes. 2 harmony, accord, harmoniousness, concord, amity, peacefulness, peacetime; cease-fire, armistice, truce: Since the Second World War, Europe has enjoyed more than 45 years of relative peace.
peaceful adj. 1 peaceable, serene, placid, calm, quiet, quiescent, gentle, restful, tranquil, untroubled, undisturbed, unruffled: After our week-end guests left, the house was again peaceful. 2 See peaceable, 2, above.
peak n. 1 top, pinnacle, crest, ridge, tor, mountain top, summit, mountain, eminence, elevation, hill: We were just able to make out the snow-capped peaks in the distance. 2 top, tip, tiptop, apex, acme, culmination, apogee, zenith, high point, crown, extreme, utmost, uttermost, perfection, ne plus ultra, consummation, climax: Irene has brought the office to a peak of efficiency. 3 visor, brim, US bill, nib: The peak of the fisherman's cap serves as an eyeshade. --v. 4 rise, crest, culminate, (reach a) climax, top (out): Prices peaked during the Christmas shopping season.
peal n. 1 ringing, ring, carillon, chime, chiming, toll, tolling, clang, clangour, tintinnabulation, clamour, reverberation; knell; clap, crash, roar, rumble, thunder: The constant peal of the bells nearly drove him mad. The doleful peal rang out for yet another fisherman lost at sea. A resounding peal of thunder shook the house. --v. 2 ring, toll, chime, clang, tintinnabulate, reverberate, resonate, resound; knell; boom, crash, roar, roll, rumble, thunder: The cowbells pealed plaintively, reminding me of my youth in the Alps. Lightning flashed, and the echoing thunder pealed through the valley.
pearly adj. nacreous, pearl-like, perlaceous, lustrous, mother-of-pearl: The dress was trimmed with pink lace and little pearly buttons.
peccadillo n. slip, error, lapse, mistake, infraction, violation, misdeed, shortcoming, misstep, blunder, faux pas, indiscretion, gaffe, botch, stumble, fault, petty sin, (minor) transgression, trespass, Colloq slip-up, goof: We have to forgive the occasional peccadillo.
peculiarity n. 1 idiosyncrasy, oddity, eccentricity, abnormality, irregularity, quirk, kink, crotchet, caprice: Keeping alligators was only one of Jess's peculiarities. 2 feature, characteristic, property, quality, trait, attribute, earmark, hallmark, mark, particularity, singularity, Brit speciality, US specialty: One of the peculiarities of the books is their wide margins.
peddle v. sell, hawk, market, vend, huckster, Colloq push, flog: He is a publishing tycoon today, but he started by peddling books door-to-door.
pedestrian n. 1 walker, stroller, ambler, rambler, footslogger; itinerant, peripatetic: A special crossing has been installed for pedestrians. --adj. 2 boring, dull, banal, tiresome, commonplace, mundane, tedious, unimaginative, uninteresting, monotonous, run-of-the-mill, humdrum, stock, prosaic, insipid, dry, flat, jejune, colourless, dreary, pale, ordinary, hackneyed, trite, (as) dull as ditch-water or US also dishwater, vapid, stale, uninspired, uninspiring, spiritless, lifeless, dead: The dean delivered his customary pedestrian lecture to the new students. 3 walking, strolling, ambulatory, on foot, rambling, peripatetic: We were exhausted after taking a pedestrian tour of London.
pedlar n. hawker, (door-to-door) salesman or saleswoman or salesperson, vendor, huckster, seller, colporteur, US peddler, drummer, Archaic chapman, Colloq cheapjack: How can you expect the watch to work if you bought it from a street pedlar?
peel v. 1 Sometimes, peel off. skin, strip (off), pare, flay, flake off, descale, decorticate; shuck, hull, bark, scale; desquamate: Beulah, peel me a grape. 2 strip, undress, disrobe; do a striptease: In the last act, everyone peels to the bare skin. 3 peel off. take off or doff, strip off: I peeled off my coat and dived into the canal to save her. --n. 4 skin, rind, coating, peeling: Don't you like candied orange peel?
peer n. 1 noble, nobleman or noblewoman, lord or lady, aristocrat; duke or duchess, marquess or marchioness, earl or countess, viscount or viscountess, baron or baroness: As a peer of the realm, she had certain rights. 2 equal, coequal, compeer, like, match, confrre, associate, colleague: Under law, he is entitled to trial by a jury of his peers.
peerless adj. without equal, unequalled, matchless, unmatched, unrivalled, unique, incomparable, beyond compare, unparalleled, nonpareil, inimitable, unexcelled, unsurpassed, superior, superb, excellent, supreme, superlative, finest, best, ne plus ultra, sovereign, consummate, pre-eminent, paramount: James's mother was a peerless beauty and the toast of her generation.
peg v. 1 pin, dowel, rod, stick, bolt; thole or thole-pin; clothes-peg, hook: Pegs and glue are often used for fastening good furniture together. Hang your coat on the peg. 2 off the peg. ready-made, ready-to-wear, stock: As bespoke clothing is so dear, I buy mine off the peg. 3 take down a peg (or two). humble, diminish, lower, subdue, suppress, downgrade, dishonour, mortify, humiliate, put down, abase, debase, devalue or devaluate: He was acting a bit high and mighty, so she took him down a peg or two. --v. 4 fasten, secure, make fast, fix, attach, pin: They pegged the tent firmly to the ground. 5 fix, attach, pin, set (by), control by, limit by, restrict, confine, freeze, bind, regulate, govern: In indexing, the rate of inflation is often used for pegging wages. 6 toss, throw, shy, flip, sling, cast: I'll bet a fiver you can't peg that stone across the river. 7 peg away or US also along. work (away) (at), persevere (at), apply oneself (to), persist (in or at), go to or at (it), keep at (it), stick to or with or at (it), stay with or at (it), carry on (with or at), Colloq plug away (at), beaver away (at), hammer or bang or peck away (at): Trevor pegs away at his homework every evening.
pelt v. 1 bombard, shower, bomb, pepper, strafe, batter, shell, assail, assault, attack, US pummel or pommel, belabour, pound, Old-fashioned lay about, Slang US clobber, wallop, paste, work over: The hooligans pelted the crowd with sticks and stones. 2 Often, pelt down. beat, dash, pound, hit; come down, teem, pour, Colloq rain cats and dogs, bucket down, US rain pitchforks: The rain came pelting down just as we were ready to go out. 3 pelt along or over. hurry, rush, run, dash, shoot, scoot, scurry: The constables pelted along after the escaping thief. --n. 4 stroke, blow, whack, hit, smack, slap, thwack, bang, thump, Colloq wallop, belt: Chris received a pelt on the head from a rock.
pen n. 1 writing instrument, fountain-pen, ball-point (pen), Brit trade mark Biro, Old-fashioned quill: Dearest, I have finally found time to put pen to paper. I prefer a pen with a fine point. --v. 2 write (down or up or out), jot down, (make a) note (of), draft, draw up, compose, put on paper, commit to paper, commit to writing, put in writing, scribble, scrawl, scratch, Formal indite: While he was in prison, he penned letters to many men of influence.
penal adj. correctional, punitive, disciplinary: Crime and its punishment are covered in the penal code. He was sent to a penal colony for life.
penalty n. punishment, discipline, penance, sentence; forfeit, fine, handicap, price, mulct, Formal amercement; imprisonment, incarceration: The prosecution demanded the maximum penalty allowable under law for the crimes.
penchant n. inclination, bent, proclivity, leaning, bias, predisposition, predilection, partiality, proneness, propensity, tendency, affinity, liking, preference, fondness, taste: Agnes has a penchant for tennis and for men who play tennis.
pending prep. 1 awaiting, waiting (for), depending on, till, until, 'til, till such time as; while, during: Pending the outcome of the trial, he was remanded in custody. --adj. 2 unsettled, undetermined, undecided, unconfirmed, unfinished, inconclusive, up in the air, hanging fire, in the balance, in abeyance; forthcoming, imminent, impending, in the offing, Colloq US in a holding pattern, on hold: The pending negotiations on the rent will determine whether we stay or move house. While the matter is pending, we can do nothing.
penetrate v. 1 enter, go or pass through or into, pierce, bore (into), lance, spear, go through or into, probe, stab, puncture, perforate, drill: The shell penetrated the tank's heavy armour. 2 permeate, diffuse, suffuse, pervade, filter or seep through, percolate through: The soothing balm penetrated my aching body and I relaxed into a deep sleep. 3 reach, get to, get at, touch, affect, hit, strike: Her cruel words penetrated the darkest recesses of my soul. 4 sink in, be absorbed, be understood, register, come or get through, become clear, come across, be realized, Colloq soak in, seep in: It took a while for it to penetrate that she did not wish to see him again. 5 understand, sense, become aware or conscious of, see (through), gain insight (in)to, discern, uncover, discover, find (out), comprehend, grasp, work out, unravel, fathom, perceive, Colloq get, figure out, dig, Brit suss out: Will we ever penetrate all of nature's secrets?
penetration n. 1 piercing, perforation, puncturing, incision, puncture, penetrating; inroad, entry, entrance: Penetration of the skull required great effort on the part of the surgeon. Tentatively we attempted the penetration of the jungle. 2 insight, keenness, perception, percipience, intelligence, perspicacity, perspicuity, perspicaciousness, perceptiveness, acuteness, incisiveness, sensitivity, sentience, understanding, acuteness, discernment, discrimination, cleverness, shrewdness, wit, quick-wittedness: We all admired the penetration that was shown by the examiner in the questions she asked.
penitent adj. contrite, regretful, repentant, remorseful, sorrowful, sorry, rueful, grief-stricken, sad, shame-faced, self-reproachful, apologetic, conscience-stricken: He said that he was truly penitent for all the heinous crimes of his youth.
pennant n. flag, banner, pennon, streamer, banderole, gonfalon, ensign, colours, standard, labarum, Chiefly nautical jack, Nautical and yachting burgee, Technical vexillum: We saw from her pennant that she was a Spanish frigate.
pensioner n. retiree, veteran, senior citizen, Brit OAP (= 'old-age pensioner'), US golden-ager, Colloq Brit wrinkly: The housing units were specially designed for pensioners' needs.
pent-up adj. restrained, constrained, repressed, stifled, bottled-up, corked-up, held in, checked, held back, curbed, inhibited, restricted: After weeks of frustration, he wanted to release his pent-up emotions in a scream. They went jogging to try to work off their pent-up energy.
people n. 1 persons, individuals, men and women, ladies and gentlemen, males and females, living souls; mortals; bodies: How many people can this aeroplane carry? 2 relations, relatives, kin, kinsmen, kinsfolk or US and Canadian kinfolk, family, kith and kin; ancestors, forebears: His people left Russia in 1917. 3 masses, (general) public, hoi polloi, consumers, multitude, populace, common people, common man, commoners, subjects, citizenry, plebeians, grass roots, proletariat, rank and file, the crowd, commonalty or commonality, mobile vulgus, bourgeoisie; man or woman in the street, Everyman, Everywoman, Mr or Mrs Average, Brit A N Other, Joe Bloggs, man or woman on the Clapham omnibus, US John Doe, Mary Doe, Richard Roe, John Q. Public; Colloq and often derogatory proles, the rabble, ragtag and bobtail, silent majority, common herd, Brit plebs, admass: Politicians unable to communicate with the people are seldom elected. --n.sing. 4 race, community, clan, tribe, folk, nation, population, society: On the subject of religion, they were a people divided. The anthropologists were studying the peoples south of the Sahara. --v. 5 populate, colonize, settle, occupy: The area was once peopled with Berber tribesmen.
pepper v. sprinkle, scatter, dot, speckle, fleck, spot, spray, bespeckle, speckle, spatter, stipple, mottle: The letter was peppered with ink-spots. Their speech was peppered with swear-words.
percentage n. share, part, portion, proportion, interest, piece, Colloq cut: We are to get a percentage of the profits in return for our investment.
perception n. 1 appreciation, grasp, apprehension, understanding, comprehension, knowledge, perspective, view: Mrs Hart's perception of the situation is quite different from mine. 2 intuition, insight, instinct, feel, feeling, sense, impression, awareness, idea, notion, consciousness, realization: Norton hasn't the slightest perception of what is going on behind his back at the office.
perch n. 1 roost, rest, seat; spot, location, position, place, site, vantage point, perspective: From his perch at the top of the cliff, Martin had a clear view of the cave entrance. --v. 2 roost, rest, sit, nest; place, put, set, situate, locate, position, site: The owl was perched in the tree, waiting for the vole to appear from its burrow.
perdition n. damnation, hell, hell-fire, doom, ruin, condemnation, destruction, ruination, downfall: If what divines call lust be punished with perdition, who is pure?
perennial adj. 1 durable, lasting, continuing, enduring, constant, stable, lifelong, persistent, incessant, uninterrupted, continual, continuous, chronic: Once we expected our rivers to yield a perennial supply of fresh water. Bing Crosby has been a perennial favourite since the 1930s. 2 permanent, unfailing, never-failing, endless, unending, ceaseless, unceasing, imperishable, undying, perpetual, everlasting, timeless, eternal, immortal, Literary sempiternal: The artificial flowers at her grave symbolize Ingrid's perennial youth.
perfection n. 1 purity, flawlessness, faultlessness, sublimity, superiority, excellence, pre-eminence, transcendence: Though we strive for perfection, we never can achieve it. 2 completion, completeness, achievement, fulfilment, realization, consummation, accomplishment, attainment: The building doesn't reach perfection till the last roof-tile is in place. 3 ideal, paragon, model, archetype, pattern, mould, standard, idealization, essence, quintessence, acme, pinnacle, summit: Machiavelli probably achieved the perfection of political cunning.
perfectly adv. 1 completely, purely, entirely, absolutely, utterly, totally, wholly, consummately, thoroughly, quite, definitely, positively, unambiguously, unequivocally, unmistakably or unmistakeably, explicitly, truly, very, extremely, extraordinarily, remarkably: Your instructions for finding the house were perfectly clear. 2 superbly, superlatively, flawlessly, faultlessly, impeccably, inimitably, incomparably, sublimely, exquisitely, marvellously, admirably, wonderfully: Sally plays that Chopin tude perfectly. 3 exactly, precisely, flawlessly, faultlessly, accurately, literally, line for line, word for word, verbatim, letter for letter, to the letter, literatim: He knows the entire Koran perfectly. 4 very, full, quite, Dialect right, Brit jolly, Slang damned, bloody: You know perfectly well that I hate cauliflower.
perfidy n. perfidiousness, treachery, deceit, traitorousness, treason, disloyalty, faithlessness, falseness, falsity, unfaithfulness, infidelity, insidiousness, hypocrisy, betrayal: The name of Judas is a byword for perfidy.
perform v. 1 execute, complete, bring off or about, accomplish, effect, carry out, discharge, dispatch, conduct, carry on, do, fulfil, Colloq pull off, knock off, polish off; put up or shut up: Postmen perform their duties despite hazards such as vicious dogs. 2 do, act, behave, operate, function, run, work, go, respond: How does your new car perform? 3 present, stage, produce, put on, mount, do; act, depict, take, play, appear as: The repertory group performs six shows weekly. He is performing the role of Scrooge.
performer n. actor or actress, artiste, Thespian, trouper, player: They received their training as performers in a repertory company.
perfunctory adj. 1 routine, mechanical, automatic, robot-like, unthinking, businesslike, unspontaneous, formal, dismissive, inattentive, uninvolved, apathetic, indifferent, unconcerned, removed, distant, dgag, offhand, heedless, uninterested, hasty, hurried, superficial, cursory, fleeting, rushed: I don't care for the perfunctory service in those fast-food restaurants. 2 careless, slipshod, slovenly, negligent, sketchy, spotty: The bill, made out in a perfunctory fashion, was incorrect.
peril n. danger, threat, risk, jeopardy, exposure, vulnerability, susceptibility, uncertainty, insecurity: You enter there at your peril. It was a time of peril for us all. The child's life was in peril.
perimeter n. boundary, border, borderline, margin, periphery, limit(s), bounds, ambit, circumference, edge, verge, fringe(s), Archaic or literary bourn or bourne: The perimeter of the military base is patrolled by sentry dogs.
periodic adj. periodical, intermittent, regular, recurrent, repetitive, iterative, cyclic(al), repeated; episodic, sporadic, occasional: We called in the plumber because of the periodic hammering in the pipes. The next periodic return of Halley's comet is expected in 2061-62.
peripheral adj. 1 incidental, unimportant, minor, secondary, inessential or unessential, non-essential, unnecessary, superficial, tangential, irrelevant, beside the point: Let's ignore the peripheral issues for the time being and concentrate on the important ones. 2 circumferential, external, perimetric, outside, outer: The peripheral measurement of the figure is seven inches.
perish v. die, expire, lose (one's) life, be killed, be lost, meet (one's) death, be destroyed: Three gnus perished in the fire at the zoo.
perk up v. cheer up, become jaunty, brighten, liven up, invigorate, smarten up, quicken, (re)vitalize, pep up, revive, inspirit, Colloq buck up: The old lady perks up when her grandchildren come to visit. To perk up the party, Peter suggested we should all play a game.
permanence n. permanency, stability, durability, fixedness, changelessness, lasting quality, longevity, endurance, persistence, dependability, reliability, survival: The new roofing material is being tested for permanence.
permanently adv. forever, for good, once and for all, forevermore, always, eternally, everlastingly; perpetually, constantly, incessantly, non-stop, continuously, endlessly, ceaselessly, unendingly, interminably: Is the boy permanently disabled? According to one theory the universe will not continue to expand permanently.
permissible adj. allowable, admissible, acceptable, allowed, permitted, tolerable, legal, licit, lawful, legitimate, authorized, proper, (all) right; pardonable, excusable, venial, Colloq OK or okay, kosher, legit: Some things that are permissible are not necessarily honourable.
permissive adj. assenting, consenting, indulgent, lenient, latitudinarian, acquiescent, lax, easygoing, liberal, tolerant, non-constraining, non-restrictive, libertarian: Allison grew up in the permissive society of the 1960s.
perpendicular adj. 1 erect, upright, vertical, plumb, straight (up and down): The plumb-line shows that the wall isn't perpendicular. 2 Often, perpendicular to. at right angles (to), at 90 degrees (to): The two paths are perpendicular to one another.
perpetual adj. 1 eternal, infinite, everlasting, never-ending, unending, perennial, ageless, timeless, long-lived, permanent, unceasing, lasting, enduring, unvarying, unchanging, immutable, invariable, undeviating, Literary sempiternal: They declared their perpetual love for each other. 2 constant, uninterrupted, continuous, unfailing, incessant, persistent, unremitting, unending, non-stop, endless, recurrent, continual, repetitive: Why should we have to listen to the neighbours' perpetual bickering?
perpetuity n. permanence, constancy, timelessness; eternity: The estate was bequeathed to the townspeople in perpetuity.
perplexing adj. confusing, bewildering, puzzling, mystifying, baffling, confounding, disconcerting, stupefying, flabbergasting, enigmatic, paradoxical, incomprehensible, unfathomable, impenetrable, recondite, arcane, labyrinthine, complex, complicated, Byzantine, intricate, involved, convoluted, twisted, knotty, Gordian: The writing is filled with perplexing references to the author's personal experiences, of which the reader is told nothing.
perquisite n. consideration, emolument, bonus, (fringe) benefit, extra, bonus, dividend, gratuity, tip, douceur, baksheesh, token (of appreciation), US lagniappe or lagnappe, Colloq perk: It was traditional to provide each director with a company car as a perquisite.
persecution n. 1 oppression, suppression, subjugation, maltreatment, ill-treatment, abuse, outrage, molestation, victimization, tyranny, affliction, punishment, torment, torture: They suffered persecution because of their difference of religion. 2 bother, annoyance, hectoring, bullying, badgering, harrying, harassing, irritation, worry, vexation, trouble: The press is often guilty of the persecution of famous people.
persevere v. Often, persevere in or with or at. persist, resolve, decide, endure, continue, carry on or through, keep at or on or up, be steadfast or staunch or constant, keep going, stand fast or firm, see through, be or remain determined or resolved or resolute or stalwart or purposeful or uncompromising, be tenacious or persistent or constant or pertinacious or assiduous or sedulous, be tireless or untiring or indefatigable, show determination or pluck or grit, be plucky, be patient or diligent or stubborn or inflexible or adamant or obstinate or obdurate, show or exhibit or demonstrate patience or diligence or stubbornness or inflexibility or obstinacy or obduracy, remain dogged, pursue doggedly, be intransigent or intractable, cling to, stick to, support, stop at nothing, sustain, Colloq stick with, stick (it) out: We must persevere if we are to win. I shall persevere in my loyalty.
persistence n. perseverance, resolve, determination, resolution, steadfastness, tenacity, constancy, assiduity, stamina, tirelessness, indefatigability, indefatigableness, tirelessness, pluck, grit, patience, diligence, pertinacity, doggedness, stubbornness, obstinacy, obduracy: By sheer persistence he got his own way.
person n. 1 individual, human (being), being, man or woman or child, (living) soul; mortal: Not a single person knew the answer to my question. 2 in person. physically, personally, bodily, actually, myself or yourself or himself or herself or ourselves or yourselves, or themselves, Colloq in the flesh: The correspondent visited the battlefield in person to see for himself the extent of the carnage. I know their records, but I have never seen them in person.
personage n. celebrity, luminary, VIP, name, notable, somebody, personality, star, superstar, magnate, mogul, Colloq big-shot, big wheel, hotshot, hot stuff, Brit big noise, Theatre US headliner: My cousin is fast becoming a personage in the financial world.
personality n. 1 character, nature, temperament, disposition, make-up, persona; identity, psyche: Miles has an extremely abrasive personality that has upset many people. 2 celebrity, luminary, star, superstar, name, headliner, somebody: Whom shall we get as a personality to attract the crowds?
personally adv. 1 in person, alone, by oneself, on one's own, myself or yourself or himself or herself or ourselves or yourselves or themselves, Colloq in the flesh: She has not met them personally, but we have. They will see to the matter personally. 2 in one's own view or opinion, for one's part, for oneself, as far as one is concerned, from one's own viewpoint, from where one stands, as one sees it or things, as for oneself: Personally, I wasn't sure I would make it. 3 as an individual, as a person, privately, in private: I like him personally but would never have him as my dentist.
perspective n. 1 (point of) view, viewpoint, standpoint, prospect, vantage point, position, angle, Colloq where one is coming from: I can see that my view would be illogical from his perspective. 2 attitude, position, angle, approach, sentiment, outlook, lookout: Management has a different perspective on what is good for the company.
persuade v. 1 urge, induce, prevail upon, influence, exhort, importune, dispose, incline, prompt, sway, press: The officer persuaded him to surrender. 2 bring round, convince, win over, talk or argue into, convert: We persuaded her to open the door. He was persuaded to vote Labour.
persuasive adj. convincing, telling, influential, effective, productive, impressive, efficacious, cogent, weighty, compelling, forceful, valid, winning, authoritative, dynamic: His most persuasive argument for our leaving was that if we stayed we'd be shot.
pertain v. Often, pertain to. concern, refer to, regard, have reference or relation (to), apply (to), relate (to), include, cover, affect, appertain (to), be appropriate (to), be fitting (for), befit, bear on, have bearing (on): The sign, 'Keep Off the Grass', does not pertain to the people who mow the lawn, Morris.
perturb v. upset, disturb, fluster, ruffle, unsettle, disconcert, make uneasy, discomfit, vex, worry, agitate, shake up, alarm, disquiet, confuse, discompose, unnerve, addle, disorganize: He became quite perturbed when the police asked him to help with their inquiries.
peruse v. read, study, scan, scrutinize, examine, inspect, review, browse, run one's eye over: As Gregory was perusing the ancient manuscript, a sudden draught blew out the candle.
perverse adj. 1 wrong, wrong-headed, awry, contrary, wayward, incorrect, irregular, unfair, improper, contradictory: It was most perverse of you to change your mind after all the arrangements had been made. 2 cantankerous, testy, curmudgeonly, churlish, crusty, bad-tempered, petulant, captious, cross, cross-grained, peevish, waspish, snappish, bilious, splenetic, fractious, ill-tempered, quarrelsome, irascible, sullen, contentious, touchy, obstreperous, crabby, crabbed, irritable, surly, Colloq grouchy, Brit stroppy, US and Canadian cranky: With everything going wrong, Catherine feels particularly perverse today. 3 stubborn, self-willed, wrong-headed, intractable, wilful, obdurate, obstinate, pigheaded, adamant, inflexible, unbending, refractory, unyielding: I refuse to give in to a perverse child just because he has a tantrum.
pervert v. 1 deflect, divert, sidetrack, turn aside or away, subvert, misdirect, distort, twist, abuse, falsify, misapply, misconstrue, misrepresent, corrupt: By withholding evidence, you have perverted the course of justice. 2 seduce, lead astray, debauch, degrade, corrupt, demoralize, subvert: He was accused of perverting young girls. 3 deviant, degenerate, debauchee, US deviate, Colloq weirdo: I worry about your being out late, when there are so many perverts about.
pessimistic n. gloomy, negative, despairing, hopeless, inauspicious, depressed, despondent, dejected, melancholy, downhearted, heavy-hearted, defeatist, glum, sad, blue, unhappy, cheerless, joyless, cynical, bleak, forlorn: The bears in the Stock Exchange take a pessimistic view of share prices.
pester v. annoy, nag, irritate, irk, bother, get at or to, badger, plague, vex, fret, hector, harass, harry, heckle, nettle, chafe, peeve, pique, provoke, exasperate, bedevil, get or grate on (someone's) nerves, get under (someone's) skin, get in (someone's) hair, try (someone's patience), torment, persecute, Brit chivvy, Colloq drive (someone) up the wall, needle, give (someone) the needle, hassle, ride, give (someone) a hard or bad time, bug: Please stop pestering me about going to the football game.
pet n. 1 darling, favourite, idol, apple of (one's) eye, Colloq Brit blue-eyed boy, US fair-haired boy: You know that you were always Father's pet. --adj. 2 tame, trained, domesticated: Doesn't the landlord take a dim view of your keeping a pet alligator in the bath? 3 favourite, favoured, preferred, cherished, special, particular; indulged, prized, treasured, precious, dearest, adored, darling: Building the summer-house was Desmond's pet project. Elizabeth's pet pupil is Anne. --v. 4 caress, fondle, stroke, pat; cuddle, nuzzle, nestle, snuggle, Colloq neck, smooch or Australian and New Zealand also smoodge or smooge, Chiefly US and Canadian make out: Small children need to be petted a lot. Two teenagers were petting in the back seat of the car. 5 humour, pamper, favour, baby, coddle, cosset, mollycoddle, cocker, spoil, indulge, dote on: His mother pets him far too much.
peter out v. diminish, evaporate, wane, come to nothing or naught or US also nought, die out, disappear, fail, fade (out or away), dwindle (into nothing), run out, give out, flag, melt away: The path petered out after a mile or so and they realized that they had lost their bearings.
petition n. 1 request, application, solicitation, suit, entreaty, supplication, plea, appeal: An anti-pollution petition, signed by thousands of people, was delivered to the Department of the Environment. --v. 2 request, ask, apply to, apply for, solicit, sue, call upon, entreat, supplicate, plead, appeal (to), appeal (for), beseech, implore, importune, Rare obsecrate: The shopkeepers petitioned the council for better police protection.
petrify v. 1 frighten, scare, horrify, terrify, paralyse, numb, benumb: I was petrified by the noise of the explosion. 2 shock, dumbfound or dumfound, stun, astonish, astound, amaze, confound, disconcert, stupefy, appal, Colloq flabbergast: The sight of so much destruction petrified even hardened reporters. 3 ossify, fossilize, turn to stone: Over thousands of years the desert conditions petrify the wood.
petulant adj. peevish, pettish, impatient, ill-humoured, testy, waspish, irascible, choleric, cross, captious, ill-tempered, bad-tempered, splenetic, moody, sour, bilious, crabby, crabbed, irritable, huffish, huffy, perverse, snappish, crotchety, cantankerous, curmudgeonly, grouchy, grumpy: With a petulant gesture she hurled the rose away.
Pharisaic adj. Pharisaical, hypocritical, insincere, self-righteous, pretentious, holier-than-thou, sanctimonious, pietistic(al), formalistic, canting, unctuous, oily, slimy, Literary Tartuffian, Pecksniffian, Colloq goody-goody , Chiefly Brit smarmy: I cannot tolerate his Pharisaic preaching.
pharmacist n. pharmacologist, Rather old-fashioned or formal apothecary, Brit (pharmaceutical) chemist, US and Canadian druggist, Formal posologist, Colloq pill pusher, US pill roller: The pharmacist said that those pills have bad side-effects.
phase n. 1 stage, period, development, step: The boy is just going through a phase. 2 time, moment, juncture, occasion: At this phase of the discussion, I should like to introduce a new subject. 3 state, form, shape, configuration, aspect, appearance, look, condition, status: Here is a diagram of the phases of the moon at various points in its orbit. 4 facet, side, angle, viewpoint, point of view, Colloq slant: Only one phase of the argument has so far been presented. --v. 5 phase in. (gradually) introduce, usher in, work in, inject, insert, insinuate, include, incorporate: The new work schedules will be phased in over the next month. 6 phase out. ease out or off, taper off, wind up, put a stop to, (gradually) eliminate, remove, withdraw, discontinue, end: The use of non-biodegradable and non-recyclable packaging is being phased out.
phenomenon n. 1 event, happening, occurrence, incident, occasion, experience, fact: Everyone knows the phenomenon of the souring of milk. 2 wonder, curiosity, spectacle, sight, sensation, marvel, rarity, exception, miracle, Slang stunner: An eight-year-old chess champion is truly a phenomenon, even in Russia.
philanthropic adj. charitable, eleemosynary, generous, magnanimous, munificent, benevolent, open-handed, ungrudging, unstinting, beneficent, humanitarian, altruistic, humane: Finlay was always philanthropic, and spent much of his fortune on worthy causes.
philanthropy n. 1 generosity, benevolence, charity, patronage, magnanimity, charitableness, public-spiritedness, big-heartedness, thoughtfulness, alms-giving, kind-heartedness, beneficence, benignity, liberality, open-handedness: Carnegie's philanthropy was focused on libraries and education. 2 donation, contribution, largesse, aid, grant, assistance, help: Mrs Ander's recent philanthropy allows us to offer six new scholarships.
philosophical adj. 1 philosophic, abstract, esoteric, learned, scholarly, erudite, theoretical, rational, logical, impractical: The person who is out of a job cares nothing about philosophical reasons for unemployment. 2 detached, unconcerned, unemotional, unimpassioned, composed, thoughtful, reflective, meditative, cogitative, contemplative, judicious, sober, level-headed, realistic, practical, pragmatic(al), down-to-earth, cool, calm, serene, placid, stoical, patient, unruffled, cool-headed, tranquil, unperturbed, even-tempered, temperate, moderate, equable, equanimous, imperturbable: Over the years, Evelyn had learned to take a philosophical attitude towards her husband's shortcomings.
phlegmatic adj. 1 phlegmatical, stoic(al), unemotional, unenthusiastic, unanimated, sluggish, apathetic, uninvolved, lethargic, unfeeling, uncaring, cold, unresponsive, stolid, unmoved, insensitive, unaffected, insensible, indifferent, unconcerned, uninterested, listless, torpid, indolent, inactive, passive, Rare hebetudinous: Hutton is far too phlegmatic to be stirred by the fervour of the revolutionaries. 2 phlegmatical, self-possessed, self-controlled, controlled, restrained, composed, calm, serene, tranquil, placid, cool-headed, equanimous, cool, undisturbed, unperturbed, unruffled, imperturbable, even-tempered, philosophical, temperate, moderate: One has to learn to be phlegmatic about things going wrong at the office.
phoney adj. 1 unreal, fake, synthetic, artificial, factitious, false, fraudulent, imitation, bogus, spurious, counterfeit, mock, ersatz, paste, trumped up; sham, pretended, insincere, hypocritical, dissimulating, deceitful, dishonest; US also phony, Colloq pseudo or Brit pseud: They were caught trying to collect insurance on the theft of a string of phoney pearls. Every time she wanted something, she'd turn on the phoney charm. --n. 2 fake, fraud, imitation, counterfeit, forgery, hoax, sham, US also phony: The diamond she's wearing is a phoney. 3 trickster, faker, humbug, impostor, pretender, charlatan, mountebank, double-dealer, counterfeiter, quack, deceiver, US also phony, Colloq Brit pseud, Slang US paper-hanger: Madame Tatiana claims to be able to communicate with the dead, but I think she's a phoney.
photographer n. lensman, lenswoman, cameraman, camerawoman, cinematographer, paparazzo (pl., paparazzi), Old-fashioned photographist: The photographers clustered round the prime minister.
phrase n. 1 clause, noun phrase, verb phrase, prepositional phrase, adverbial phrase, adjectival phrase: When asked for an example of a verb phrase, the student responded, 'Shut up'. 2 expression, word-group, collocation, locution, idiom, idiomatic expression, collocution, proverb, motto, slogan, saying, catch-phrase, adage, maxim, axiom, saw, colloquialism, clich, platitude, commonplace, Colloq chestnut: Do you know the source of Churchill's famous phrase, 'Blood, sweat, and tears'? 3 phraseology, phrasing, wording, language, usage, way or manner of speaking, diction, parlance, faon de parler, modus loquendi, modus scribendi, speech habit, style, choice of words, word choice, syntax, vocabulary: He was to 'let slip', to use Shakespeare's phrase, 'the dogs of war'. --v. 4 express, term, word, put, frame, formulate, couch, put into words, put or set forth, verbalize, articulate, voice, utter, say, write; describe, delineate: I am pondering over the best way to phrase this example.
physician n. doctor, medical doctor, MD, doctor of medicine, medical practitioner, general practitioner, GP, medical man or woman, specialist, diplomate, Brit navy surgeon, Colloq doc, medico, medic, US man, Slang sawbones, bones: You ought to see a physician if the pain persists.
picket n. 1 stake, pale, post, peg, stanchion, upright, vertical, palisade, paling: The walls of the fort were of strong pickets tapered to a point at the top. 2 demonstrator, protester, striker: The police prevented the pickets from attacking workers who entered the factory. 3 picquet, sentinel, watchman, guard, observer, patrol, vedette or vidette or vedette boat: The picket reported no unusual activity. --v. 4 enclose, shut in, wall in, fence (in), hem in, box in: We picketed the camp for the night. 5 protest, demonstrate, blockade: Strikers picketed the factory 24 hours a day.
pictorial adj. 1 graphic, picturesque, vivid, telling, striking, expressive, plain, explicit, clear, lucid: Many of the poet's images are amazingly pictorial. 2 illustrated: They published a pictorial history of biblical lands just for children.
picturesque adj. 1 colourful, interesting, intriguing, unusual, unique, original, charming, idyllic, fetching, attractive, pretty, lovely, quaint, delightful, pleasing, scenic: We came upon a picturesque village in which all the houses were half-timbered Tudor style with thatched roofs. 2 colourful, graphic, realistic, vivid, striking: Bernard has written a picturesque account of a walking trip through Bavaria.
pice de rsistance n. highlight, (special or main) feature or attraction, spcialit (de la maison), masterpiece, chef-d'oeuvre, Brit speciality, US specialty: The pice de rsistance of the meal was a magnificent gateau.
pier n. 1 wharf, landing (stage or place), jetty, quay, floating dock, Technically inaccurate dock: The ship is tied up at the pier. 2 pile, piling, post, upright, column, support, buttress: Owing to lack of maintenance, the piers supporting the building have crumbled.
piercing adj. 1 strident, shrill, harsh, ear-splitting, ear-shattering, high-pitched, screaming, shrieking, screeching, loud, blaring: The piercing sound of the police siren made me sit bolt-upright in bed. 2 probing, searching, penetrating, sharp, keen; arresting, gripping, spellbinding, enthralling, fascinating, entrancing: I was completely transfixed by her piercing green eyes. 3 penetrating, icy, frosty, frigid, chilling, freezing, cold, numbing, keen, wintry, arctic, raw, bitter, fierce, biting, nipping, nippy: Shivering in that piercing wind I thought I'd never be warm again. 4 stabbing, shooting, excruciating, exquisite, acute, sharp, severe, agonizing, fierce, intense, painful, racking: I suddenly felt a piercing pain in my left ear.
pile n. 1 heap, mound, stack, accumulation, stockpile, mass, supply, deposit, collection, assemblage, batch, hoard, aggregation, congeries, conglomeration, assortment, agglomeration, concentration, amassment: A huge pile of gravel was delivered today for the builders. 2 money, fortune, wealth, holdings, Colloq bundle, loot, mint, Slang packet, tidy sum, US bankroll, roll, wad: She made her pile selling arms to terrorists. 3 Usually, piles. abundance, over-abundance, superabundance, plenty, great deal, quantity, ocean(s), lot(s), stack(s), plethora, Colloq oodles, ton(s), bag(s), heap(s), bundle(s): He made piles of money in the black market. 4 See pier, 2, above. --v. 5 Often, pile up. stack (up), heap (up), mound, accumulate, stockpile, amass, collect, assemble, hoard, aggregate, cumulate: Please pile the cartons in the corner. 6 pile in or into. enter, get in or into, crowd in or into, pack in or into, flood in or into, jam in or into, crush in or into, Colloq jump in or into: All of us piled into my car to go to the cinema. 7 pile it on. exaggerate: Ronnie was really piling it on about how much his new job pays. 8 pile on or onto. a get in or into or on or onto, crowd on or onto, jump on or onto: We piled on the train after the game. They piled onto the hay wagon for a ride home. b attack, assault, jump on, overwhelm: They all piled on me and I had to give up. 9 pile out. leave, get out (of) or down (from), exit: When we arrived, we all piled out of the bus. Hordes of people piled out of the theatre. 10 pile up. accumulate, amass, collect: The rubbish kept piling up during the strike.
piles n.pl. haemorrhoids.
pilfer v. steal, rob, plunder, thieve, filch, embezzle, misappropriate, purloin, take, walk off with, palm, Colloq appropriate, pinch, snatch, grab, lift, borrow, Brit nick, snaffle, US boost, Slang hook, snitch, swipe, rip off: The auditors found that he had pilfered small sums from the company for years.
pilgrimage n. hajj or hadj, holy expedition, crusade; expedition, journey, trek, voyage, tour, trip, excursion: Every year the entire family made a pilgrimage to grandfather's grave.
pillage v. 1 plunder, raid, ravage, sack, despoil, rob, loot, ransack, rifle, maraud, depredate, devastate, vandalize, ruin, demolish, raze, level, strip: The Goths pillaged every community they conquered and carried off the booty. --n. 2 plunder, rapine, despoliation, looting, robbery, sack, sacking, ransacking, marauding, brigandage, piracy, freebooting, buccaneering, banditry, depredation, devastation, vandalization, defilement, destruction, laying waste, destruction, razing, demolition, levelling, ruin, stripping: Pirates from Tripoli were responsible for the pillage of one coastal town after another. 3 plunder, loot, booty, spoils: In the cave Ali Baba found the pillage from a thousand robberies.
pilot n. 1 aviator, aviatrix, flier, airman, airwoman, aeronaut, captain: The pilot announced that we would land in five minutes. 2 steersman, helmsman, navigator, US wheelman or wheelsman; guide, leader, cicerone, conductor: The pilot knows his way through the shoals. A student acted as our pilot in our tour of Oxford. --v. 3 guide, steer, run, direct, shepherd, control, lead, navigate, drive; fly: Only someone with local knowledge can pilot the ship into that harbour. The chairman piloted the company through turbulent times.
pimple n. pustule, papula, boil, swelling, eruption, blackhead or technical comedo, excrescence, Brit spot, Scots plouk or plook, US whitehead, Old-fashioned US hickey: The old witch had a pimple at the end of her nose.
pincers n.pl. pliers, nippers, tweezers: Can you get the nail out with these pincers?
pink n. 1 in the pink. at one's best, healthy, hearty, in the best of health, in top form, in good shape, Colloq US up: I saw Rob the other day, and he's in the pink. --adj. 2 rosy, rose, rose-coloured, pinkish, flesh-colour(ed), salmon(-colour(ed)): The designer suggests pink curtains for the bedroom.
pinnacle n. top, peak, apex, acme, summit, zenith, maximum, climax, crowning point, consummation, utmost, extreme, perfection; tip, cap, crest, crown: Being elected chairman was the pinnacle of Mark's career. The climbers reached the pinnacle, where they will rest overnight.
pious adj. 1 devout, religious, reverent, reverential, worshipful, dutiful, God-fearing, godly, faithful, holy, dedicated, devoted, spiritual, moral, good, virtuous, right-minded, saintly, holy, angelic, seraphic, Christ-like, godlike: Francis is a pious boy who attends church regularly. 2 hypocritical, sanctimonious, pietistic, self-righteous, Pharisaic, mealy-mouthed, pretended, fraudulent, goody-goody, unctuous, oily, Colloq Brit smarmy: You are rationalizing your bad behaviour with a lot of pious cant.
pipeline n. 1 pipe, tube, duct, hose, line, main, conduit, passage, conveyor, channel: Pipelines carry gas from the North Sea throughout Britain. Very little information was flowing through the pipeline from Beirut. 2 in the pipeline. on the way, under way, in the offing, ready, imminent, coming, Colloq in the works, cooking, US in work: They said that the contract was in the pipeline and should arrive soon.
pirouette n. 1 spin, whirl, twirl, turn, revolution, pivoting: Antoinette did a beautiful pirouette followed by a pas de chat. --v. 2 spin, whirl, turn (round), revolve, pivot: He was so happy that he fairly pirouetted round the room.
pit n. 1 hole, excavation, shaft, cavity, mine, mine-shaft, quarry, working, ditch, trench, trough: Pits had been dug for the extraction of gravel. 2 pothole, hollow, depression, dent, indentation, dimple, pock-mark: His face was disfigured by the pits left by teenage acne. 3 abyss, chasm, well, crevasse, crater: We found a bottomless pit that led to the centre of the earth. 4 the pits. awful, terrible, the worst, Slang lousy: That TV show last night was the pits. He thought that going to school was the pits. --v. 5 dent, pock-mark, dig, scar, hollow out, gouge: The salt air has pitted the metal parts of my car. 6 Often, pit against. match, oppose, set against; contrast: Shirley doesn't stand a chance if they pit her against Maria.
pitch v. 1 toss, throw, cast, fling, hurl, heave, sling, fire, launch, shoot, send, let fly, Cricket bowl, Colloq chuck, peg, lob, Brit bung: He rolled the paper into a ball and pitched it into the basket. 2 erect, raise, set or put up, position, fix, place: We ought to pitch the tent in a level area. 3 plunge, fall (headlong), dive, drop, plummet, (take a) nosedive: I caught my toe on the kerb and pitched forward onto the pavement. 4 Chiefly nautical toss about, lurch, plunge, flounder, go head over heels, go keel over truck, US pitchpole or pitchpoll: The wind reached force ten as we pitched and rolled and yawed in the heavy seas. 5 pitch in. contribute, cooperate, help, assist, Colloq chip in: Everyone pitched in to make the church fair a success. 6 pitch into. a attack, lay into, assail, lash out at, abuse, rail against, Colloq lace into, tear into, jump down (someone's) throat, jump on: Reggie's wife really pitched into him about going out with other women. b attack, assault, set upon, belabour, Colloq light into, sail into, tear into: They pitched into each other and fought like Kilkenny cats. 7 pitch on or upon. determine, decide on, select, pick, choose, opt for, elect, nominate, name, Colloq light on: They pitched on Carrie to be the best candidate for treasurer. pitch n. tar, bitumen, asphalt: Peter patched potholes with pitch.
pitched adj. organized, planned, deliberate, coordinated, arranged, systematized: The two armies fought a pitched battle on the plain.
pitfall n. 1 trap, pit: Pitfalls were often used in Burma for trapping tigers. 2 danger, peril, hazard, catch, difficulty, snag: You might well encounter pitfalls, but don't be discouraged.
pitiful adj. 1 See piteous, above. 2 small, little, insignificant, trifling, unimportant, beggarly, sorry, mean, contemptible: Does Hodges seriously expect us to praise him for that pitiful contribution of his?
pitted adj. eaten away, corroded, eroded, pock-marked, defaced, marred, pierced, perforated: The chrome plating is all pitted where the acid splashed.
pivot n. 1 pintle, gudgeon, hinge, swivel, pin, kingpin, spindle, fulcrum: Use this stone as a pivot for the lever to lift the rock. 2 centre, heart, focal point, hub, nave, crux: The finance minister regards the interest rate as the pivot on which the economy turns. --v. 3 rotate, revolve, turn, spin, twirl, whirl, swivel: The flywheel pivots on a bearing that requires constant lubrication. 4 hinge, depend, hang, be contingent, revolve around, rely: The whole deal pivots on the cooperation of the banks.
placement n. 1 arrangement, placing, position, distribution, array, disposition, deployment, positioning, stationing, organization, order, ordering, location, locating, arraying, emplacement, emplacing: The placement of the chairs is all wrong for tonight's meeting. 2 employment, appointment, engagement, hiring: Placement of qualified engineers has not been a problem.
plague n. 1 scourge, epidemic, pestilence, affliction, pandemic, calamity, curse, evil, bane, blight, visitation: The inhabitants turned a plague of locusts to advantage by eating them. 2 irritation, annoyance, nuisance, pest, vexation, bother, thorn in one's side or flesh, torment, torture, Colloq pain (in the neck), headache, aggravation, Slang drag, bitch, hassle, Taboo slang pain in the Brit arse or US ass: It's a plague trying to find a place to park the car. --v. 3 badger, harry, hound, pester, annoy, vex, irritate, bother, harass, nag, nettle, exasperate, gall, annoy, irk, torment, torture, anguish, distress, Brit chivvy or chivy or chevy: I wish the police would stop plaguing me with questions about Jonathan's whereabouts.
plan n. 1 design, layout, blueprint, scheme, method, procedure, system, arrangement, programme, project, formula, pattern, Colloq script, scenario: The plan called for monthly progress meetings. The best laid plans of mice and men gang aft agley. 2 drawing, sketch, design, layout, blueprint, chart, map, diagram, representation: This plan shows where the furniture will be placed. --v. 3 lay out or down, design, arrange, devise, outline, organize, plot, map out, delineate, develop: She has been invited to plan the new shopping mall. 4 intend, expect, envisage, envision, foresee, aim, contemplate, propose: Were you planning to go to the cinema tonight?
plank n. board, timber, slab: The flooring was made up of wide planks laid side by side.
planter n. flowerpot, cache-pot: He poured the drugged wine into a nearby planter.
plaster v. smear, daub, bedaub, spread, coat, cover, overlay, superimpose: The mud was plastered all over my boots. They plastered the walls with posters.
plate n. 1 platter, dish, Archaic trencher, charger: I left the cold mashed potato on my plate. 2 course, serving, portion, dish, platter: I ordered their speciality, a plate of spaghetti. 3 layer, leaf, sheet, pane, panel, lamina, slab: In the condenser, insulation separates the thin metal plates. 4 coating, coat, plating, layer, lamination: The plate on our cutlery is wearing thin. 5 illustration, picture, print, US cut: The book contains many beautiful colour plates of flowers. --v. 6 cover, coat, overlay, face, laminate: All the serving dishes were plated with gold.
platform n. 1 stand, dais, stage, podium, rostrum: After the introduction, the speaker mounted the platform. 2 policy, party line, principle(s), tenet(s), programme, plank: The main elements of our platform will be revealed at the party conference.
platoon n. company, squad, squadron, group, patrol, team, cadre, body, formation, unit, Colloq outfit: A platoon of soldiers was marched to the barracks in close-order drill.
plausible adj. 1 likely, believable, reasonable, credible, tenable, conceivable, thinkable, probable, imaginable, admissible, sound, sensible, rational, logical, acceptable, trustworthy, presentable: The police regarded our alibi as plausible. 2 specious, deceptive, meretricious, misleading, deceitful, casuistic, sophistical, Jesuitical, smooth, empty: He was a cunning, plausible sort of fellow.
playboy n. man about town, rou, rake, debauchee, gay dog, womanizer, Don Juan, Casanova, Lothario, Romeo, Colloq wolf, lady-killer: He fancies himself as a playboy, but no women seem to agree.
playful adj. 1 (high-)spirited, cheerful, frisky, frolicsome, kittenish, sprightly, fun-loving, sportive, coltish, mischievous, puckish, impish, elfish, devilish: The cat didn't mean to scratch you, she was just being playful. 2 joking, facetious, teasing, roguish, waggish, jesting, humorous, tongue-in-cheek: Cleo's in a playful mood today, isn't she?
plaything n. 1 toy, game, knick-knack, pastime: Please pick up your playthings before supper. 2 tool, cat's-paw, dupe, pigeon, pawn, Colloq US and Canadian fall guy: She had no use for Gerry except as a plaything.
plea n. 1 request, entreaty, appeal, petition, supplication, suit, cry, solicitation: Teenagers' mischievous behaviour is an earnest plea for attention. 2 answer, defence, argument: She entered a plea of 'not guilty' to the charge. 3 excuse, reason, explanation, justification; pretext: His plea was that he had not received the bill and therefore couldn't pay it.
pleasant adj. 1 pleasing, pleasurable, nice, enjoyable, satisfying, good, lovely, attractive, inviting, enjoyable, gratifying, delightful, charming, agreeable, suitable, fitting, appropriate; harmonious, euphonious, melodic, mellifluous; delicious, delectable, palatable, savoury, toothsome: Travelling on the Orient Express was a most pleasant experience. The bedroom is decorated in a combination of pleasant colours. He simply doesn't find sunbathing particularly pleasant. That sauce has a very pleasant taste. 2 friendly, affable, amiable, amicable, gregarious, companionable, sociable, engaging, attractive, winning, open, approachable, outgoing, welcoming, hospitable, agreeable, gracious, charming, congenial, genial, nice, likeable, urbane, cultivated, genteel, polite, courteous, well-mannered, suave, debonair, polished, well-bred, cultured: Murray always has a pleasant expression on his face. He is quite a pleasant fellow, once you get to know him. 3 fair, sunny, clear, bright, cloudless, balmy, nice, fine: What a pleasant day for an outing in the country!
pleased adj. happy, delighted, glad, gratified, satisfied, contented, thrilled; Colloq tickled pink, pleased as Punch, on cloud nine, in seventh heaven, on top of the world, walking on air, Brit over the moon, chuffed: His pleased look comes from his having won first prize. pleasing adj. 1 See pleasant, 1, above. 2 See pleasant, 2, above.
pleasure n. 1 enjoyment, happiness, delight, joy, satisfaction, fulfilment, contentment, gratification; comfort, recreation, amusement, entertainment, diversion: It is a pleasure to meet you at last. Fred derives so much pleasure from tinkering with his model railways. 2 choice, option, desire, wish, preference, fancy, inclination, discretion: Feel free to come and go at your pleasure.
plebiscite n. popular vote or ballot, referendum, poll: The plebiscite revealed that the people were in favour of joining the Common Market.
plentiful adj. 1 ample, abundant, profuse, copious, lavish, plenteous, bountiful, generous, bounteous: We found a plentiful supply of food in the markets. 2 fertile, fruitful, productive, bumper, luxuriant, thriving, prolific: We thanked the Lord for a plentiful harvest.
pliable adj. 1 flexible, pliant, elastic, plastic, fictile, malleable, workable, bendable, bendy, ductile, flexuous, supple; lithe, limber: This substance remains pliable only while it is warm. 2 tractable, adaptable, flexible, pliant, compliant, persuadable or persuasible, impressionable, susceptible, responsive, receptive, docile, manageable, yielding: The other directors may not be as pliable when it comes to improving employee benefits.
plod v. 1 Often, plod along. trudge (along), tramp, slog, drag, tread, lumber, labour, Colloq stomp, galumph: We plodded wearily up the road carrying our heavy packs. 2 Often, plod along or away. labour, work, drudge, toil, moil, slave (away), grind (away or along), grub (on or along), plug (along or away), Brit peg away (at) or along: Plodding through the compilation of the Oxford Thesaurus, he was only halfway through the letter P.
plot n. lot, plat, patch or parcel (of land), tract, acreage, area, Brit allotment: I have a small plot by the canal which is ideal for growing potatoes.
pluck n. 1 courage, spirit, bravery, grit, boldness, intrepidity, backbone, mettle, determination, gameness, resolve, resolution, steadfastness, hardiness, sturdiness, stout-heartedness, stoutness, fortitude, nerve, Colloq guts, spunk, US sand, Slang Brit bottle, US moxie: She certainly showed pluck standing up to the boss like that. --v. 2 pick, remove, withdraw, draw out, extract: The children plucked flowers in the garden and made posies. 3 snatch, grab, yank, jerk, tear (away): She was plucked from the jaws of death by Tarzan, who happened to be swinging by on a vine. 4 tug (at), pull (at), catch (at), clutch (at); vellicate: An ancient crone plucked at his sleeve as he passed.
plum n. find, catch, coup, prize, treasure; bonus, cream: Harvey's landed a plum job as overseas buyer.
plump adj. 1 chubby, stout, fleshy, ample, full-bodied, portly, tubby, rotund, squat, chunky, buxom, corpulent, roly-poly, fat, obese, overweight, steatopygous, Brit podgy or US pudgy, Colloq busty, beamy, hippy, beefy, well-upholstered: They went on a diet because they were getting a bit plump. --v. 2 puff up or out: When you get up, please plump up the pillows on the sofa.
plunder v. 1 pillage, loot, rob, ravage, ransack, rifle, despoil, spoil, vandalize, sack, strip, maraud, devastate, desolate, lay waste: The attacking army plundered the villages. 2 prey on or upon, pirate, capture, seize: The buccaneers plunder the Spanish treasure ships on the high seas. --n. 3 pillage, looting, robbery, depredation, rapine, despoliation, spoliation, vandalization, sack, vandalism, vandalizing, sacking: It is said that the plunder of Rome took no more than a fortnight. 4 booty, loot, spoils, prizes, Slang boodle: The police displayed an Aladdin's cave of plunder recovered from the thieves.
plus prep. 1 and, added to, increased by, with the addition of, with an increment of, (coupled) with, together with: Two plus three equals five. Your initial deposit plus accumulated interest will make a substantial sum. --adj. 2 added, additional, supplementary, extra: One must take into account the plus value of the good publicity. --n. 3 addition, bonus, extra, gain, benefit, asset, advantage, profit, return: Improvements constitute a big plus in evaluating the building.
ply n. layer, leaf, thickness, fold: These seams are sewn through two plies of fabric.
poem n. verse, lyric, rhyme or archaic rime, song, ode, rhapsody, jingle, ditty: The anthology contains poems by politicians.
poetic adj. 1 poetical, lyric(al), metrical, musical, melodic; idyllic, elegiac, georgic, rhapsodic, epic, dithyrambic: She bought a volume of the poetic works of John Keats. 2 artistic, aesthetic, Parnassian, Hippocrenian, melodious: The novel contains some poetic passages of surpassing quality.
po-faced adj. stern-visaged, austere, dour, disapproving, frowning, grave, saturnine, solemn, sombre, humourless, grim, forbidding, severe, strait-laced, uncompromising, puritanical, prim, prudish, gruff, bluff, curmudgeonly: Despite having a po-faced approach to his work, William has a keen sense of humour when off duty.
point n. 1 dot, mark, speck; (full) stop, period; decimal point: The writing is smudged, but that looks like a point at the end of the line. 2 tip, peak, apex, spike, spur, prong, sharp end: Be careful of the point of that knife. 3 spot, place, stage, position; site, station, location, locale: We have reached the point of no return on that subject. I stopped at a few points along the way to admire the view. 4 time, moment, instant, juncture: At that point, we were summoned by the dinner bell. 5 focus, essence, meat, pith, quiddity, substance, heart, nucleus, crux, nub, core, bottom, details, Colloq guts, nitty-gritty: I wish he would stop all the palaver and get to the point. 6 purpose, intent, intention, aim, goal, object, objective, sense: What was the point of bringing that piece of gossip into the discussion? 7 thrust, drift, theme, purport, burden, import, implication, significance, signification, sense, meaning; application, applicability, relevancy, appropriateness: We found it difficult to see the point of the argument. 8 promontory, projection, headland, cape, peninsula: It may take us a day to sail round the point. 9 brink, verge: We were on the point of leaving when the guest of honour finally arrived. 10 detail, particular, item, element, nicety, aspect, facet, matter, issue, subject, question; specifics: Some of the points in her speech need clarification. 11 pointer, hint, suggestion, piece of advice, tip: The golf pro at the club gave me some good points on improving my swing. 12 thought, idea, consideration; notion, view, plan, tactic; something: That's a point to keep in mind if you buy another sailing-boat. 13 unit, tally, score: She made her point and went on to win the match. 14 attribute, characteristic, feature, aspect, trait, quality, side, property: I suppose he has his good points, too. 15 beside the point. irrelevant, inapt, inappropriate, malapropos, incidental, immaterial, unimportant, pointless, inconsequential: The fact that she's my sister is beside the point. 16 in point of. in reference to, regarding, as regards, in the matter of, concerning, with respect to: In point of date, the two events coincide perfectly. 17 make a point of or US also make (it) a point to. make an effort (to), put or place emphasis on, go out of one's way (to); emphasize, single out, stress: He made a point of apologizing to the hostess for his behaviour. She made a special point of forgiving him. 18 to the point. relevant, pertinent, appropriate, fitting, apropos, germane, apt, applicable, apposite: The speech was short and to the point. --v. 19 Often, point to. indicate, call or direct attention to: Desire pointed to the building and asked what it was. 20 direct, level, aim, train: I awoke to find her pointing a gun at my head. 21 point out. a designate, call or direct attention to, show, exhibit, indicate, identify: The taxi driver pointed out all the sights as we drove along. b say, bring up, mention, allude to, bring up, emphasize, stress, point up, single out; allude to, call attention to, remind: I'd like to point out that you have rarely won at bridge. She pointed out the fallacy in his argument. 22 point up. emphasize, stress, accentuate, underline, underscore, accent, spotlight: Such errors point up the need to double-check everything.
pointed adj. 1 needle-shaped, sharp, acute, barbed, peaked, spiked, spiky, Technical acuminate, cuspidate, aciform, acicular, aciculiform, aculeous, apiculate, spiculate, serrate(d), acuminate, mucroniform, mucronulate, mucronate(d), muricate, hebetate: The child was poking holes in the sand with a pointed stick. 2 incisive, piercing, cutting, sharp, pungent, keen, penetrating, telling, trenchant, biting, unmistakable or unmistakeable: The critic made a few pointed remarks about the actors' reading of the lines.
pointless adj. purposeless, aimless, worthless, ineffective, meaningless, ineffectual, futile, unproductive, fruitless, bootless, useless, vain, senseless, absurd, silly, stupid, inane, asinine, fatuous, preposterous, nonsensical, ridiculous, empty, hollow: After her paper, someone rose and wasted half an hour making pointless remarks.
poise n. 1 balance, equilibrium, equipoise, equiponderance, parity, par: The chariots of the gods in even poise, obeying the rein, glide rapidly. 2 composure, control, self-possession, aplomb, assurance, dignity, equanimity, sang-froid, cool-headedness, imperturbability, presence of mind, coolness, staidness, reserve, sedateness, calmness, serenity, tranquillity, Colloq cool: Jane's poise is remarkable, despite the heckling by the audience. --v. 3 balance, be balanced, hover, hang, float; make or be or get ready, prepare: The boulder was poised on the edge of the cliff.
poison n. 1 toxin, venom, bane; miasma, mephitis: The chemical plant was found to be releasing poisons into the atmosphere. He kills rats using poison. 2 virus, bane, cancer, canker, corrupt or evil influence, pestilence, plague, blight: The drug barons continue to spread their poison throughout the world. --v. 3 defile, adulterate, infect, taint, pollute; contaminate, debase, pervert, vitiate, subvert, warp, envenom: Chemicals from the nearby plant have poisoned the drinking-water. Why have you poisoned the child's mind against eating spinach? 4 murder, kill, do away with, destroy, dispatch or despatch: Lucrezia Borgia poisoned her enemies in ingenious ways.
poke v. 1 jab, stick, prod, dig, goad, stab, thrust, push, elbow, nudge, jog, jostle, butt, shove: Be careful not to poke someone in the eye with your umbrella. He tells a joke, then pokes me in the ribs to make sure I've got it. 2 punch, hit, strike, box, cuff, smite, smack: I made a suggestive remark and she poked me in the jaw. 3 pry, nose (about or around), stick one's nose into, intrude, dig, probe, investigate; meddle, interfere, butt in, tamper; Colloq snoop: I wish they would stop poking into my affairs. 4 poke fun (at). tease, ridicule, mock, make fun of, jeer (at), chaff, taunt, twit, make sport of, needle, Colloq kid, rib, Brit send up, take the mickey out of: People who don't understand something often poke fun at it. Stop poking fun at my hat. --n. 5 jab, prod, dig, stab, thrust, push, elbow, finger, nudge, jog, jostle, butt, shove: Every time Rodney wants to emphasize a point, he gives you a poke. 6 punch, hit, box, jab, cuff, smack, blow: If anyone says anything bad about you, I'll give him a poke in the nose.
pole n. rod, stick, staff, spar, shaft, mast, standard, upright; flag-pole, flagstaff, jackstaff; beanpole, hop-pole: We had to use a long pole to get the kite down from the tree.
police n. 1 constabulary, policemen, policewomen, police officers, Colloq boys in blue, the (long arm of the) law, the cops, the gendarmes, Slang the coppers, the fuzz, Brit the (Old) Bill, US the heat: There was a bit of an argument, so we called the police. --v. 2 patrol, guard, watch, protect: Additional officers were assigned to police the neighbourhood. 3 enforce, regulate, administer, oversee, control, observe, supervise, monitor: A unit was established to police the terms of the agreement. police officer n. officer, policeman, policewoman, constable, Brit police constable, PC, WPC, Chiefly US peace officer, patrolman, patrolwoman, Colloq cop, gendarme, Brit bobby; Slang copper, fuzz, flatfoot, Brit rozzer, Old Bill, Offensive and derogatory pig, Historical peeler, US bull, fuzz ball: The police officers then asked if I wouldn't mind helping with their inquiries.
polish v. 1 shine, brighten, burnish, buff, furbish, wax, clean, smooth, rub, gloss: He polished up the handles so carefully That now he is the ruler of the Queen's navy. 2 Often, polish up. refine, improve, perfect, finish, cultivate, ameliorate, enhance; correct, emend: If you polish up the article we might consider it for publication. 3 polish off. a conclude, end, terminate, finish: Ned polished off his homework in less than an hour. b kill, slay, murder, dispatch or despatch, destroy, dispose of, do away with, liquidate, eliminate, Slang bump off, rub out, do in, take for a ride: Three platoons were polished off quickly. c dispose of, put away, eat, consume, wolf (down): In a few minutes, MacGregor had polished off the entire meal. 4 polish up. study, review, learn, Archaic con, Colloq bone up (on), Slang Brit swot up (on): If you're going to M laga, you'd better polish up your Spanish. --n. 5 gloss, shine, lustre, sheen, glaze, smoothness, brilliance, sparkle, gleam, glow, brightness, radiance: You cannot imagine what a fine polish she put on that old table. 6 wax, oil: The new polish really put a shine on the desk.
polite adj. 1 civil, respectful, well-mannered, mannerly, courteous, deferential, diplomatic, tactful, formal, proper, cordial: We asked our new neighbours to tea but were met with a polite refusal. 2 See polished, 2, above.
political adj. 1 governmental, civic, civil, public, state, national, federal; administrative, bureaucratic: The movement began as an attempt to gain political freedom. 2 partisan, factious, factional: A coalition government was formed by the major political parties.
politics n. 1 public affairs, political science, civics, civil affairs, government, statecraft, diplomacy, statesmanship: Hume viewed politics as people united in society and dependent on each other. 2 manoeuvring, manipulation, wirepulling, machination: Office politics are such that they wouldn't dare dismiss that department head.
pollute v. 1 contaminate, adulterate, befoul, foul, soil, spoil, taint, stain, dirty, sully, blight, poison: These factories must be prevented from continuing to pollute the atmosphere. 2 corrupt, desecrate, profane, defile, violate: The altar was polluted because it had been touched by a non-believer.
pomp n. glory, grandeur, magnificence, splendour, show, extravaganza, pageantry, ceremony, spectacle, brilliance, ceremoniousness: The Chinese court's pomp and display of wealth had never before been seen by a westerner.
ponder v. consider, muse (over or on), brood (over or upon or on), mull over, deliberate (over), meditate (upon or on), think (over or on or about), weigh, ruminate (over), chew over, cogitate, excogitate, reflect (on or over), contemplate: I shall need a while to ponder the answer to that question. Give me a little more time to ponder.
pool n. 1 pond, lake, tarn, mere, lagoon; swimming-pool, leisure pool, wading pool, Brit paddling pool, US wading pool, Formal natatorium: We found an icy mountain pool where we went for a swim. 2 collection, fund(s), purse, stakes, reserve(s), bank, Colloq pot, jackpot, kitty: So far we have too little money in the pool for an office party at Christmas. 3 syndicate, trust, group, consortium, cartel, combine: The object of the pool was the private regulation of market prices, which is illegal. --v. 4 accumulate, collect, gather, combine, merge, consolidate, amalgamate, league, bring or come or band or get together, team (up) with: We would do better if we pooled our resources.
poorly adv. 1 badly, inadequately, unsatisfactorily, incompetently, inexpertly, improperly, crudely, unprofessionally, amateurishly: The decorators you recommended have done their work very poorly indeed. --adj. Colloq 2 unwell, indisposed, ailing, sick, below par, Colloq rotten, under the weather: Charles is rather poorly, I'm afraid.
populace n. people, masses, commonalty, (general) public, commoners, multitude, hoi polloi, crowd, throng, rabble, peasantry, proletariat, common folk, rank and file, working class, bourgeoisie, mob, Derogatory great unwashed, riff-raff, rabble, canaille, ragtag and bobtail: Some MPs act on behalf of their own constituencies rather than the populace at large.
popularity n. favour, acceptance, approval, esteem, regard, repute, reputation, vogue, trend, stylishness, renown, acclaim, fame, celebrity, lionization, (hero-) worship, Colloq trendiness: The immense popularity of her novels in America has made her very rich.
populate v. colonize, settle, people, occupy; inhabit, dwell in, reside in, live in: Shiploads of families braved the voyage to populate the New World.
populous adj. crowded, (heavily) populated, peopled, teeming, thronged, crawling, swarming, jammed, jam-packed, packed: The populous cities contrast with the sparsely inhabited rural areas.
pore n. opening, orifice, hole, aperture, vent, perforation, Technical spiracle, stoma: A hot bath opens the pores in the skin.
pornography n. obscenity, smut, filth, dirt, erotica, Colloq porn: The council voted to forbid the sale of pornography within the town precincts.
port n. harbour, haven, seaport; mooring, anchorage; refuge: We were bound east for the port of Cardiff.
portentous adj. 1 ominous, threatening, momentous, sinister, fateful, alarming, menacing, foreboding, ill-omened, inauspicious, unfavourable, ill-starred, ill-fated, star-crossed, lowering or louring, gloomy, unpromising, unpropitious: Precisely at midnight they appeared with the most portentous news. 2 extraordinary, amazing, astonishing, astounding, prodigious, awesome, awe-inspiring, remarkable, marvellous, phenomenal, fabulous, fantastic, mind-boggling, wondrous, miraculous: The coronation of a British monarch is truly a portentous event.
porter n. 1 concierge, cleaner, caretaker, Chiefly US and Canadian janitor, superintendent, Colloq US super: When we are away, the porter keeps our mail for us. 2 door-keeper, watchman, doorman, gatekeeper, concierge, US tiler: He went to my club, but the porter would not let him in.
portion n. 1 segment, part, section, division, subdivision, parcel, piece, hunk, chunk, lump, wedge, slice, sliver, fraction, fragment, bit, morsel, scrap: A portion of the masonry fell into the street in the earthquake. 2 share, part, allotment, quota, ration, apportionment, allowance, allocation, assignment, percentage, measure, division, quantity: The size of an investor's portion depends on the amount invested. 3 helping, serving; ration, plate, platter: He complained that the portions in nouvelle cuisine are too small. --v. 4 Often, portion out. apportion, share out, allocate, ration, allot, partition, assign, consign, dole out, deal (out), parcel out, distribute, administer, dispense, disperse, divide, split up, carve up, cut up, break up, section, Colloq divvy up: The conquered territories were then portioned out among the victors.
portray v. 1 represent, picture, show, depict, paint, render, characterize, describe, delineate: She is portrayed wearing the Castelli tiara. Why must I always be portrayed as the villain? 2 act or play (the part or role of), take the part or role of, represent, pose as, impersonate: She portrays an aged crone who regains her youth in the last act.
poseur n. posturer, exhibitionist, pretender, impostor, masquerader, attitudinizer; fake, faker, dissembler, fraud, Colloq show-off, phoney or US also phony: He talks about literature, but he's a poseur who just spouts the opinions of others.
posit v. postulate, hypothesize, propound, put or set forth, put forward, advance, propose, pose, offer, submit, predicate: If we posit a downturn in prices next year, how does that affect our profit forecasts?
positive adj. 1 sure, certain, definite, unequivocal, categorical, absolute, unqualified, unambiguous, unmistakable or unmistakeable, clear-cut, clear, explicit, express, decisive, indisputable, indubitable, unquestionable, unquestioned, incontestable, uncontested, undeniable, reliable, persuasive, convincing, irrefutable: The police have positive evidence that the men are innocent of any crime. Spending this evening with you has been a positive delight. 2 definitive, emphatic, decided, forceful, firm, peremptory, definite: He gave a positive denial when asked if he had agreed to let the hostages go. She made a positive commitment to meet me here at noon. 3 sure, certain, confident, convinced, satisfied: Are you positive that the last train is at midnight? 4 beneficial, favourable, complimentary, productive, useful: I heard many positive things about the way she handled herself at the interview. 5 overconfident, dogmatic, doctrinaire, pontifical, opinionated, pigheaded, stubborn, obstinate, obdurate, arbitrary, overweening, arrogant, assertive, dictatorial, despotic, imperious, Rare thetic(al): His problem is that he is quite positive about things that simply are not so. 6 practical, realistic, utilitarian, productive, functional, pragmatic(al), realistic, matter-of-fact, Colloq hard-nosed: They have taken a positive approach to studying the economics of small businesses. 7 encouraging, supportive, constructive, reassuring, enthusiastic, favourable, affirmative, yes, confirming: Our plan to buy out the company has received a positive reaction from our bankers. Asked if they would buy our product, businessmen gave a positive response. 8 auspicious, promising, propitious, encouraging; optimistic, favourable, cheerful, confident; Colloq bullish, upbeat: In the long run, the picture for home-owners looks positive. It pays to maintain a positive outlook and not get depressed. 9 complete, utter, total, perfect, out-and-out, consummate, unmitigated, thorough, thoroughgoing; egregious, glaring, stark, sheer, outright, unqualified, unequivocal: You were a positive idiot not to let me know you needed help. All attempts at reconciliation ended in positive disaster.
possess v. 1 be possessed or in possession of, have, own, enjoy, be blessed or endowed with: In the 19th century, the family possessed great wealth. 2 have, be born or gifted or endowed with, contain, embody, embrace, include: He possesses a talent to amuse people. Man does not possess as keen a sense of smell as many animals. 3 dominate, control, govern, consume, take control of, preoccupy, obsess; charm, captivate, enchant, cast a spell over, bewitch, enthral: What possessed her to think that I could help? He behaves as if he is possessed by the devil. 4 be possessed with or of. have, be held or influenced or dominated by, be imbued or inspired or permeated or affected with: She became possessed with the notion that she could sing. Fiona believes herself the only person possessed of reason. 5 possess oneself of. acquire, achieve, get, come by, gain, come into, win, obtain, procure, secure, take, seize, take or gain possession of: Kevin has possessed himself of the only comfortable bed in the place.
possession n. 1 ownership, title, proprietorship, control, hold, tenure, keeping, care, custody, guardianship, protection: The paintings are now in my possession. 2 holding, territory, province, dominion, colony, protectorate: How long will the Falkland Islands remain a possession of the Crown? 3 possessions. belongings, property, effects, chattels, assets, worldly goods, things: The prison clerk placed all my possessions in an envelope, explaining that they would be returned when I was released. 4 take or gain possession of. seize, capture, take, conquer, occupy, acquire, win, possess oneself of, secure, obtain; repossess: The raiding party gained possession of the port and surrounding area. The finance company has taken possession of my car.
possibility n. 1 chance, odds, prospect, conceivability, feasibility, plausibility, likelihood, admissibility: There is a possibility of my leaving work early to meet you. What is the possibility that he might be honest? They deny even the possibility of God's existence. 2 Often, possibilities. opportunity, potentiality, potential, capacity, promise: The old house has many large rooms and offers great possibilities.
possibly adv. 1 maybe, perhaps, God willing, Deo volente, if possible, Archaic or literary perchance, mayhap, peradventure: She is possibly the best person for the job. 2 in any way, under any circumstances, by any chance, by any means, at all: Could you possibly help me find my contact lens? The weather forecast couldn't possibly be correct.
post n. 1 assignment, appointment, position, situation, job, place, duty, role, function, employment, work, task, chore: Clarke was given a post as consul in some forgotten country. --v. 2 place, put, station, assign, appoint, position, situate, set, locate: Guards have been posted around the enclosure.
poster n. placard, notice, bill, advertisement, announcement, broadside, broadsheet; circular, flier: Who designed that striking poster for the new play?
posterity n. descendants, successors, heirs, children, offspring, issue, progeny: It is good that these buildings will be preserved for posterity. Posterity will be the judge of our success.
post-mortem n. 1 autopsy, necropsy: We'll know the cause of death after the post-mortem. 2 review, analysis, Slang US Monday-morning quarterbacking: We can do without the post-mortem on every bridge hand.
postponement n. delay, adjournment, abeyance, suspension, stay, deferment, deferral, moratorium: There has been a postponement of the meeting till Monday.
pot n. 1 pan, saucepan, cauldron, cook-pot, stewpot; kettle: How many politicians have promised the people 'a chicken in every pot'? 2 jackpot, bank, kitty: You will have to add 5 to the pot to see my hand. 3 pot-belly, paunch, gut, Colloq corporation, beer belly, spare tyre, US bay window: If he exercised more, Patrick wouldn't have such a pot.
potential adj. 1 possible, likely, implicit, implied, imminent, developing, budding, embryonic, dormant, hidden, concealed, covert, latent, quiescent, passive, future, unrealized, undeveloped: We are dealing with a potential threat to our liberty. --n. 2 capacity, capability, possibility, aptitude, potency, Colloq the (right) stuff, what it takes: All teenagers have potential; the problem is to teach them to exploit it to the best advantage.
pot-pourri n. mixture, medley, miscellany, assortment, olla podrida, smorgasbord or smrgsbord, gallimaufry, salmagundi, patchwork, collection, hotchpotch or US and Canadian hodgepodge, mlange or melange, motley, pastiche or pasticcio, mishmash, jumble, mess: What a pot-pourri of styles is represented in that art gallery!
pottery n. earthenware, ceramics, terracotta, crockery, stoneware, porcelain, china, delftware: Ornamented pottery has been found in pre-Columbian digs.
pounce v. 1 Often, pounce on or upon. spring (on or upon), leap (at or on), swoop down (on or upon), fall upon, jump (at or on), strike, take by surprise or unawares, attack, ambush, Colloq mug: As I rounded the corner, three youths pounced on me, stole my bag, and ran off. --n. 2 spring, leap, swoop, jump: The cat was on the mantel shelf in a single pounce.
pound n. enclosure, pen, compound, confine, yard: My car was towed to the pound, and it cost a fortune to retrieve it.
pout v. 1 mope, brood, sulk, make a moue, pull a long face, frown, lour or lower, knit one's brows: Don't pout - I'll buy you an ice-cream. --n. 2 frown, moue, long face: Her pout was occasioned by her father's scolding.
powder n. 1 dust; talc: I couldn't remember whether the jar contained cornflour or baking powder. She dabbed her body all over with scented powder. 2 take a (run-out) powder. run away, abscond, escape, vanish, disappear, Slang Brit scarper, do a moonlight flit, US take it on the lam: The cops are coming, so I'm taking a powder. --v. 3 pulverize, bray, grind, crush, pound, granulate, triturate, comminute, levigate: The rocks must first be crushed, then powdered. 4 sprinkle, besprinkle, dust, dredge, cover, coat: Lightly powder the top of the cake with icing sugar, and it is ready to serve.
powerful adj. 1 potent, strong, mighty, vigorous, robust, energetic, sturdy, stalwart, tough, resilient, dynamic: Leslie has a powerful physique. The cities of the Hanseatic League had powerful economies. 2 influential, strong, compelling, forceful, potent, substantial, weighty, authoritative, effective; important, impressive, telling, effectual, formidable, persuasive: Powerful arguments have been brought to bear against taking such action. She has many powerful friends. 3 strong, potent; intense, substantial, great, high: The drug is too powerful to be taken regularly. A powerful electrical charge was sent through the wire to test the connection.
practical adj. 1 pragmatic, useful, usable or useable, functional, realistic, reasonable, sound, utilitarian, applicable, serviceable, empirical, efficient: Whether the device is practical will depend on its cost effectiveness. 2 sensible, reasonable, common-sense or common-sensical, everyday, ordinary, down-to-earth, expedient, matter-of-fact, mundane, business-like, hard-headed, judicious, Colloq hard-nosed: Put theory aside and focus on a practical solution to the problem. 3 applied, field, hands-on, personal, everyday: She has had practical experience in nursing the elderly.
practice n. 1 custom, wont, habit, routine, convention, tradition, rule, procedure, usage, mode, style, way, modus operandi, technique or technic, Formal praxis, Colloq MO (= 'modus operandi'): She makes a practice of swimming for an hour every day. It is our practice to get patients out of bed as soon as possible after surgery. 2 exercise, discipline, drill, practising, repetition, rehearsal, training, preparation; workout, warm-up; application, study: She needs more practice on the beginner's slope before going down the main piste. 3 pursuit, exercise, work, profession, career, vocation, conduct; business, office: He genuinely enjoys the practice of law. I heard of a veterinary practice for sale in Yorkshire. 4 in practice. practically, actually, day-to-day, realistically, in real life: In practice no one would ever treat an injury the way this book recommends. 5 out of practice. inexperienced, unpractised, unaccustomed, rusty: I once played a good game of chess, but I'm out of practice now.
practised adj. 1 accomplished, proficient, expert, skilled, experienced, capable, adept, seasoned, able, qualified, gifted, talented, skilful, masterful, consummate, superb, superior, US practiced: She is a practised liar. 2 trained, rehearsed, versed, cultivated, schooled, finished, perfected, US practiced: He greeted them with the practised air of an veteran diplomat.
praiseworthy adj. commendable, laudable, admirable, creditable, worthy, meritorious, deserving, exemplary: However praiseworthy your motives were, you did not stop to consider the consequences.
prank n. trick, (practical) joke, frolic, escapade, antic, caper, stunt, lark, jest, jape, monkey tricks or esp. US monkeyshines, mischief: Those schoolboy pranks we once thought hilarious now seem quite silly.
pray v. 1 beseech, ask, call upon or on, entreat, implore, request, appeal to, plead (with), beg (for), importune, solicit, petition, supplicate, Rare obsecrate: I pray you to find it in your heart to approve my work. 2 say one's prayers, offer a prayer: We prayed for her safe return.
preach v. 1 deliver a sermon, evangelize, spread the Word or the Gospel; catechize: The Most Reverend John Attwood will preach next week at Winchester. 2 moralize, sermonize, advise, counsel, admonish, reprimand, lecture, harangue, pontificate; urge, inculcate, advocate: Mother used to preach to us about being charitable. Father preached restraint in all things.
preamble n. introduction, foreword, prologue, preface, Formal proem, prolegomenon, exordium: As a preamble to today's proceedings, I should like to welcome our honoured guests.
precaution n. 1 provision, preventive measure, safety measure, safeguard, insurance, protection, cover, escape: Unfortunately, he had failed to take any precautions against storm damage. 2 foresight, prudence, providence, forethought, caution, cautiousness, circumspection, care, attention, watchfulness, vigilance, alertness, wariness, chariness, apprehension, far-sightedness, anticipation: Precaution is wiser than hindsight.
precedence n. precedency, priority, pre-eminence, superiority, supremacy, preference, privilege, prerogative, importance, rank, position, primacy: Your school work must take precedence over football practice.
preceding adj. foregoing, former, previous, above, prior, earlier, above-mentioned, aforementioned, above-stated, above-named: The defendant in the preceding action was remanded in custody for a week.
precinct n. 1 Usually, precincts. area, territory, region, province, environs, purlieus, borders, bounds, confines: Does he have any authority outside the precincts of the city? 2 sphere, neighbourhood, zone, sector, section, quarter, district, locale: In some US cities, the area covered by a police station is called a precinct.
precipice n. cliff, escarpment, bluff, crag: We looked nervously over the edge of the precipice at the raging sea below.
precipitation n. showers, drizzle, downpour, rain, rainfall, snow, snowfall, hail, sleet: Precipitation can be expected in advance of the low-pressure area pushing down from the north.
prcis n. outline, summary, synopsis, aperu, rsum, conspectus, survey, overview, abstract, abridgement, digest, compendium, recapitulation; table of contents: As I haven't the time to read the entire study document, let me have a prcis of it.
precisely adv. 1 exactly, just, strictly, Colloq on the nail, smack, slap, on the nose, Brit bang on, spot on: His view is precisely the opposite of hers. We left precisely at five o'clock. You phoned, and that is precisely why I came. The two paintings are not precisely the same. 2 exactly, exactingly, correctly, rigorously, absolutely, punctiliously, minutely, carefully, meticulously, scrupulously, conscientiously, strictly, rigidly, inflexibly; in all respects, in every way: This judge follows the letter of the law precisely.
preclude v. obviate, bar, prevent, stop, exclude, prohibit, shut out, forestall, rule out, debar, check, block, obstruct, avert, avoid, thwart, frustrate, impede, inhibit, hinder, interfere with: To preclude misunderstanding, please repeat what you said. They may not engage in activities that preclude them from performing their regular duties.
preconceived adj. beforehand, predisposed, prejudged, predetermined, prejudiced, biased, anticipatory: He has many false preconceived notions about people.
precondition n. prerequisite, stipulation, condition, essential, must, sine qua non, imperative, requirement, proviso, provision, qualification, necessity: The release of the prisoners is a precondition for talks. Is great humanity a precondition of great music, or is it just a matter of the notes?
predatory adj. 1 predacious or predaceous, carnivorous, preying, raptorial: Despite domestication, dogs and cats are predatory animals. 2 rapacious, ravenous, plundering, robbing, pillaging, marauding, despoiling, looting, piratical, vulturine, avaricious, greedy, voracious, larcenous, thieving, extortionate, usurious: Predatory pirates once ravaged the Mediterranean. Keep out of the hands of predatory money-lenders, my son.
predestination n. destiny, future, lot, fortune, kismet, karma; doom, fate; foreordainment, foreordination: Meeting like this must have been predestination.
predicament n. dilemma, quandary, difficulty, trial, situation, state, condition, imbroglio, emergency, crisis, impasse, Colloq pickle, jam, fix, pinch, scrape, spot, bind, corner, hole, mess, US box: I was hoping that you might help me out of a very awkward predicament.
predictable adj. foreseeable, foreseen, probable, likely, liable, expected, anticipated, (reasonably) sure or certain, Colloq Brit on the cards, US in the cards: Her angry reaction at being dismissed was quite predictable.
predominance n. predominancy, superiority, influence, dominance, pre-eminence, preponderance, ascendancy, precedence, power, supremacy, hold, sway, hegemony, leadership, mastery, control, dominion, sovereignty, transcendence or transcendency, authority, the upper hand, the whip hand, advantage, the edge: We must re-establish the predominance of intellectual vigour over crass commercialism.
predominate v. Often, predominate over. dominate, control, rule, reign, preponderate, outweigh, obtain, prevail, overshadow, get or have the upper hand, lord it over, hold sway, overrule: Though the American president is a Republican, the Democrats predominate in Congress.
pre-eminent adj. 1 See predominant, above. 2 peerless, excellent, distinguished, eminent, inimitable, superb, unequalled, matchless, incomparable, outstanding, unique, unrivalled, unsurpassed, supreme, superior: In her opinion, Craig is the pre-eminent authority on the subject.
pre-empt v. appropriate, usurp, arrogate, take over, assume, take possession of, seize, acquire, take, possess, expropriate: All the seats on the committee had been pre-empted by the ruling faction.
preface n. 1 introduction, foreword, prologue, preamble, Formal proem, prolegomenon, exordium: By way of preface, I should like to say how happy I am to be here. The preface to the book is far too long. --v. 2 precede, introduce, prefix, begin, open: The speaker prefaced his acceptance speech with a tribute to his predecessor.
prefer v. 1 favour, like better, fancy, lean or incline towards or on the side of, be inclined, be partial to, pick, select, opt for, choose, single out, take a fancy to, embrace, espouse, approve, esteem: Which flavour do you prefer, chocolate or coffee? I should prefer to take my own car. 2 present, offer, propose, proffer, advance, submit, tender, put forward, file, lodge, enter: They preferred charges against the hooligans for criminal damage.
preferential adj. advantageous, biased, prejudiced, favourable, privileged, partial, better, favoured, superior: What entitles her to preferential treatment?
prehistoric adj. 1 primordial, primal, primeval, primitive, earliest, early, antediluvian, Noachian or Noachic, fossil, ancient: The prehistoric remains of yet another skeleton have been found in the peat bogs. 2 antiquated, out-dated, old-fashioned, pass: My mother makes me wear these absolutely prehistoric clothes to school.
prejudiced adj. 1 unfair, one-sided, biased, jaundiced, opinionated, predisposed, partial, partisan, non-objective, unobjective: The prosecution objected to him as a prejudiced witness. 2 bigoted, intolerant, narrow-minded, closed-minded, parochial, sexist, racist, chauvinistic: We have no room in our organization for people who are prejudiced.
preliminary adj. 1 advance, prior, introductory, beginning, initial, opening, preparatory, prefatory, preceding, antecedent, forerunning; premonitory; Formal or technical prodromal or prodromic: The preliminary design for the swimming-pool is ready. After some preliminary remarks, the ceremonies got under way. --n. 2 introduction, beginning, opening, preparation, groundwork, prelude, precedence; overture: We insist on rigorous training as a preliminary to working in the field. 3 prelims. Rarely, preliminaries. introduction, preface, foreword, preamble, prologue, front matter, Formal proem, exordium, prolegomenon, prodromus, prodrome: The manuscript is finished and we are waiting for the prelims.
prematurely adv. 1 untimely, too soon, too early: He died prematurely at the age of 46. 2 rashly, (over-)hastily, at half-cock, half-cocked: She dismissed him prematurely, before he had the time to prove himself. The gun went off prematurely, with no chance to aim it.
premier n. 1 prime minister, PM, head of state, chief executive, president, chancellor: The premiers of the Commonwealth met at Kuala Lumpur in 1989. --adj. 2 first, prime, primary, chief, principal, head, main, foremost, top-ranking, highest-ranking, ranking, leading, top, pre-eminent: He is the premier expert in his field.
premise n. 1 premiss, assumption, proposition, postulate, hypothesis, conjecture, assertion, supposition, thesis, presupposition, proposal, theorem, surmise, basis, ground: He started out with the premise that time had a beginning and will have an end. --v. 2 assume, propose, postulate, hypothesize, hypothecate, conjecture, posit, assert, suppose, presuppose, theorize, surmise, put or set forth, predicate, argue: If you accept what Einstein premised in the Special Theory of Relativity, then you accept that space is curved.
premonition n. intuition, foreboding, presentiment, forewarning, suspicion, feeling, hunch, Colloq funny feeling, sneaking suspicion: I had a premonition that something terribly evil was lurking in store for me.
preparation n. 1 Often, preparations. a groundwork, spadework, provision(s), foundation, preparing, measures, proceedings: Nothing will interfere with our preparation for the royal visit. b plans, arrangements: We are making preparations to leave tomorrow. 2 fitness, readiness, readying, preparing, training, education, teaching, instruction, instructing, tuition, briefing, grooming, Colloq gearing up, prep, US prepping: The preparation of the students was your responsibility. 3 drawing up, draughting, planning, setting up, putting together, organizing, organization, composing, making: How is your preparation of the new proposal coming along? 4 work, preparing, getting ready, study, studying, practising, practice, Colloq cramming, Brit swotting: All my preparation for the exam was to no avail. 5 substance, compound, concoction, mixture, product, material, stuff, composition: This preparation is a furniture wax, not a suntan lotion.
prepare v. 1 (get or make) ready, prime, arrange, (put in) order, organize, provide for, make provision(s) for, lay the groundwork (for), (make) fit, fit (out), equip, outfit, adapt: Have you prepared adequately for the meeting? We prepared the house to receive guests. 2 train, (get or make) ready, study, practise, Colloq cram, Brit swot, get up: He is preparing to take an exam. 3 train, educate, teach, (get or make) ready, groom, brief, develop: Her mother is preparing her for the next Olympics. 4 cook (up), make, do, Colloq whip up, US and Canadian fix: I shall prepare dinner for eight o'clock. 5 manufacture, fabricate, produce, make, put out, build, construct, assemble, put together, turn out, fashion, forge, mould: Our company prepares components for the printing industry. 6 brace, strengthen, steel, fortify, ready: When I saw the doctor's face, I prepared myself for bad news. 7 process, produce, make, treat, change, modify, transform: This fabric has been specially prepared to repel stains.
preparedness n. vigilance, alertness, readiness, fitness: The armed forces were kept in a continuous state of preparedness.
prepossessing adj. attractive, appealing, pleasing, favourable, engaging, charming, captivating, fascinating, winsome, winning, magnetic, alluring, bewitching, taking, fetching, inviting, good-looking, handsome, lovely, beautiful: She is a woman of prepossessing appearance and a delightful nature.
prerequisite adj. 1 essential, necessary, requisite, imperative, indispensable, obligatory, required, called-for, demanded: Naval service is a prerequisite condition for joining the club. --n. 2 precondition, requirement, qualification, requisite, condition, sine qua non, proviso, provision, necessity: A thorough grounding in mathematics is a prerequisite for the study of advanced physics.
prescribe v. ordain, order, direct, dictate, demand, decree, require, enjoin, rule, set (down), stipulate, command, instruct, define, specify, impose, lay down, exact, constrain: The doctor prescribed rest. An independent journalist, Healey would not let anyone prescribe what he could or could not write.
prescriptive adj. dictatorial, constrictive, didactic, restrictive, dogmatic, authoritarian, overbearing, autocratic, imperious: As grammar is a description of how language works, it cannot be prescriptive.
present adj. 1 current, contemporary, present-day, existing, existent, up to date, Colloq now: Do you understand the present generation? 2 nearby, nearest, immediate, closest, adjacent, proximate, propinquitous; close, remaining; accounted for: Everybody has been awful to me - present company excepted. All those present heard what she said to me. --n. 3 at present. (right or just) now, for the time being, for the present, today, these days, Non-Standard presently, Colloq at this point in time: I am not ready to invest at present. 4 the present. the time being, the moment, the hour, the nonce, this juncture, these days, our times; today, (right) now, nowadays; Colloq this point in time: She lives for the present, and never thinks of the consequences.
presentable adj. 1 fit, fitting, suitable, acceptable, satisfactory, adequate, passable, tolerable, admissible, all right, allowable, up to par or standard or the mark, good enough, Colloq up to scratch, OK or okay, up to snuff: Whether that argument is presentable in a court of law is disputable. 2 decent, proper, polite, decorous, respectable, well-bred, well-mannered, fit to be seen: After a bath, shave, and change of clothing he looked quite presentable.
presently adv. soon, by and by, in a little while, shortly, after a short time, in due course, after a while or a time, before long, in a moment or a minute or a while, Archaic or literary anon, Colloq in a jiffy, in two shakes (of a lamb's tail), Non-Standard now, at present: The show opens presently in the West End. I shall be with you presently.
preserve v. 1 keep safe, protect, guard, take care of, care for, safeguard, watch over, shield, shelter, defend, spare: What can we do to preserve ourselves from this terrible pestilence? May God preserve me, I never expected to see you again! 2 keep (up), maintain, conserve, spare, perpetuate; continue, support, sustain, save: We developed a technique to preserve antique furniture. The sea preserves much of the heat it absorbs in the summer. It is difficult to preserve one's sanity in this madhouse. 3 conserve, put up, pickle, cure, smoke, kipper, salt, corn, marinate, can, freeze, freeze-dry, refrigerate, dry, dehydrate, vacuum-pack; embalm, mummify: The berries were preserved by bottling and freezing. Some of the remains were preserved for hundreds of years. --n. 4 Often, preserves. conserve(s), jam, jelly, confiture, marmalade: Susan likes thick toast with butter and preserves for tea. 5 (game) reserve, reservation, sanctuary, Brit park: No hunting is allowed in this preserve.
press v. 1 subject to or exert pressure or force, force, push, impel, thrust, bear (on), weigh on or upon, jam, cram, crush; pressure or Brit also pressurize: The crowd was pressing against the door. Although hard pressed at first, we eventually won. 2 squeeze, compress, depress, push: When the picture is in focus, press this button to release the shutter. 3 squeeze, crush, compress, mash: After harvesting, the grapes are pressed to extract the juice. 4 iron, smooth, flatten, put through a mangle; steam: I shall have to press my jacket before going out to dinner. 5 clasp, embrace, hug, hold (close or tight(ly)), take in one's arms, throw one's arms about or around, cleave to, Archaic clip: She pressed the child to her with great affection. 6 constrain, urge, force, pressure, compel, demand, persuade, induce, prod, provoke, importune, beseech, ask, request, beg, entreat: They pressed me to tell where the money was hidden. 7 crowd, flock, gather, mill, swarm, throng, seethe, cluster, congregate, meet, converge, huddle: The reporters pressed round the chancellor to catch every word. --n. 8 crowding, gathering, thronging, converging, convergence, crowd, throng, swarm, cluster, huddle, pack, herd, host, multitude, horde, mob, crush: When the doors opened, the huge press of people pushed onto the train. 9 urgency, haste, hurry, hustle, bustle, pressure, stress: The press of business required me to postpone my trip to Paris. 10 the press. a newspapers, the papers, Fleet Street, the fourth estate, the media, the wire or news services, broadcasting, television, radio: The press will have a field-day when this news gets out. b newspaper people, newspapermen or newspaperwomen, newsmen or newswomen, reporters, correspondents, ladies or gentlemen of the press, journalists, commentators, paparazzi, Brit leader-writers, US editorial writers, Colloq news-hounds, Brit journos: The doors were opened and the press were invited in.
pressure n. 1 force, compression; weight, power, strength: The air pressure in your tyres is low. The pressure of the water burst the pipe. 2 compression, pressing, squeezing, compressing, tension, stress, crushing: The pressure of a tourniquet has to be loosened now and then. 3 affliction, oppression, press, weight, burden, load, albatross, strain, stress, urgency, demands, exigency or exigencies, vexation, distress, trouble(s), adversity, difficulty or difficulties, straits, constraint(s), problem(s): Pressure of work prevents me from taking any time away from the office. When interest rates increase, we all feel financial pressure. 4 influence, power, sway, constraint, insistence, coercion, intimidation, arm-twisting; inducement, persuasion, urging, pressing: Without more pressure from local residents, the roadworks will not be completed in time. --v. 5 persuade, influence; prevail upon or on, press, urge, sway, intimidate, bring pressure to bear (on), apply pressure (on or to), coerce, force, compel, constrain, require, demand, make, insist upon or on, Brit pressurize, Colloq twist (someone's) arm, lean on, turn the heat on, Slang put the screws on or to: They pressured him to take the assignment in New Zealand.
prestigious adj. important, significant, eminent, estimable, imposing, impressive, pre-eminent, prominent, distinguished, august, dignified, renowned, famous, famed, well-known, illustrious, acclaimed, respected, celebrated, noted, notable, noteworthy, outstanding, glorious, honoured, glamorous: She may be a prestigious author, but she does not live at a very prestigious address.
presume v. 1 assume, take for granted, suppose, surmise, infer, suppose, presuppose, take it, gather, understand, think, believe, imagine, suspect, fancy, conjecture, postulate, posit, theorize, speculate, hypothesize, hypothecate, US and Canadian guess: For some unaccountable reason, we presumed that your train would arrive on time. Dr Livingstone, I presume? 2 dare, take the liberty, be so presumptuous as, make (so) bold (as), have the audacity or effrontery, go so far as, venture: Who is he to presume to judge others? 3 Often, presume on or upon. encroach (on or upon), impose (on or upon), take liberties (with), intrude (on or upon or into): I hate to presume on our friendship, but could you lend me some money?
presumptive adj. 1 likely, reasonable, plausible, tenable, believable, credible, conceivable, acceptable, justifiable, sensible, rational, sound: There is strong presumptive evidence, but we need proof. 2 inferred, presumed, assumed, supposed, understood, predicted, predicated: As King Richard was childless, his brother was heir presumptive to the Crown.
presuppose v. See presume, 1, above.
pretence n. 1 show, display, pretension, ostentation, airs, front, faade, appearance, make-believe, fiction, hypocrisy, fakery, faking, feigning, humbuggery, humbug, deception, artifice, pretext, posturing, pretentiousness, pretending, camouflage, cover-up: Her charming manner was all pretence, for in reality she despised him. 2 hoax, humbug, artifice, pretext, sham, show, pose, faade, front, cover-up, cover, cloak, veil, mask, masquerade, disguise, guise, deception, ruse, dodge, blind, fabrication, invention, fiction, story, fable, make-believe, fairy tale, figment, falsification, impression: His loyalty was a pretence under which he carried on many liaisons. 3 excuse, pretext, pretension: They would ring for the butler on the slightest pretence, just to impress us.
pretender n. claimant, aspirant, candidate, suitor, rival, seeker: He was the pretender to the Scottish throne.
pretentious adj. 1 ostentatious, showy, superficial, pompous, arrogant, bombastic, inflated, high-flown, exaggerated, vainglorious, fastuous, grandiose, grandiloquent, extravagant, magniloquent: The minister's pretentious language is a bit too much to take. 2 snobbish, lofty, haughty, flaunting, Colloq high and mighty, highfalutin or hifalutin, hoity-toity, high-hat, Slang snotty, Brit toffee-nosed: That new couple next door are so pretentious - they think that nobody is good enough to associate with them!
pretty adj. 1 comely, attractive, good-looking, nice-looking, appealing, lovely, cute, mignon(ne), graceful, fair, bonny, fetching, charming, winsome, beautiful, pulchritudinous, Colloq easy on the eye(s): A pretty girl is like a melody. That's a very pretty cottage. 2 tuneful, melodic, melodious, dulcet, musical, lyrical, harmonious, catchy, mellifluous, euphonious: He played a pretty tune on the piano. --adv. 3 rather, quite, fairly, moderately, reasonably, tolerably; somewhat; very, extremely, unbelievably, incredibly: The children put on a pretty good performance, I thought. He had become pretty fat since we last saw him.
prevailing adj. 1 dominant, predominant, prevalent, main, chief, principal, common(est), usual, customary, universal: The prevailing winds are westerlies. 2 influential, effective, effectual, dominating, affecting, powerful, potent, forceful, ruling, telling, main, principal: The prevailing religion there is Buddhism.
prevalent adj. universal, catholic, common, frequent, prevailing, current, ubiquitous, pervasive, omnipresent, general, usual, customary, commonplace, extensive, widespread, established, ascendant, dominant, predominant, governing, ruling: A desire for change is prevalent throughout the country.
prevention n. preventing, anticipation, preclusion, obviation, forestalling, avoidance, avoiding, prohibition, prohibiting, ban, banning, bar, barring, forbiddance, forbidding, interdiction, interdicting, taboo, tabooing, enjoining, injunction, proscription, proscribing, foiling, frustration, frustrating, obstruction, obstructing, debarment, debarring, interception, intercepting, abortion, aborting, thwarting, checking, check, blocking, block, warding or fending or staving off, balk or baulk, balking or baulking, stopping, arrest, arresting, halt, halting, hindrance, hindering, impedance, impeding, curb, curbing, restraint, restraining, hampering, inhibition, inhibiting, delay, delaying, retardation, retarding, slowing, mitigation, mitigating, control, controlling: The first item on the agenda is the prevention of cruelty to children. As the total prevention of crime is impossible, we must at least try to curb it.
preview n. advance showing, private showing; opening, vernissage: We saw the Picasso exhibition at a preview held for friends of the gallery.
previously adv. before, once, formerly, earlier, at one time, then, beforehand, heretofore, theretofore, hitherto, thitherto, in the past, in days gone by, in days of old, in days or time past, in the old days, some time ago, a while ago, once upon a time, yesterday, Literary in days of yore, in olden days or times: The same thing had happened previously when I was in London. Previously, people lived more relaxed lives - or so we like to think.
price n. 1 charge, cost, expense, expenditure, outlay, payment, amount, figure, fee; quotation, appraisal, value, valuation, evaluation, worth: The price of this lamp is too high. What is the price of that box? Can he afford the price of a ticket? The current price of a London flat is out of my reach. 2 sacrifice, toll, penalty, cost, consequence: Loss of his freedom was too high a price for standing by his principles. 3 reward, bounty, premium, prize, payment, bonus, honorarium, Literary guerdon: The gunfighter had a price of 1000 on his head. 4 without price. See priceless, 1, below. --v. 5 value, evaluate, rate, assay, assess, cost (out): How would you price a piece of furniture like this chair?
pricey adj. pricy, expensive, dear, costly, exorbitant, outrageous, excessive, extortionate, Colloq steep, Brit over the odds: The restaurant where she took him was certainly pricey, but the food was excellent.
prickle n. 1 spine, bristle, barb, thorn, bur, needle, tine, spike, spur, prong: The prickles make the brambles cling to your clothes. 2 pricking, prickliness, itch, itchiness, sting, tingling, tingle: I felt the prickle of the rough wool against my skin. --v. 3 tingle, sting, itch, smart: Sloane complained that the beard he had to grow for the pirate role made his face prickle. 4 stick, jab, prick: The child's hands had been prickled by the chestnuts.
pride n. 1 honour, proudness, self-esteem, self-respect, amour propre, dignity: It is gratifying to be able to look with pride on one's children's achievements. 2 conceit, egotism, self-importance, vanity, hubris, arrogance, overconfidence, overweeningness, self-admiration, self-love, self-importance, smugness, haughtiness, hauteur, snobbery, snobbishness, Colloq uppitiness: Pride goeth before a fall. Her pride stems from an exaggerated notion of her own worth. 3 boast, flower, best, prize, pride and joy, treasure, jewel, gem: Those model railway trains are Eustace's pride and joy. --v. 4 Usually, pride oneself on. be proud of, take pride in, delight in, revel in, celebrate, glory in: Irena prides herself on having made her own way in life, without anyone's help.
priestly adj. clerical, ecclesiastic, pastoral, hieratic, sacerdotal; ministerial, canonical, missionary: She has taken her priestly vows.
priggish adj. (ultra-)conservative, prim, demure, prudish, purist, puristic, pedantic, school-marmish, strait-laced, hidebound, stiff-necked, puritanical, conformist, (Mrs) Grundyish, punctilious, formal, formalistic, strict, severe, fastidious, fussy, particular; precious, prcieux or prcieuse, niminy-piminy, over-nice, Colloq stick-in-the-mud, goody-goody, prissy, old-maidish, stuffed-shirt, stuffy, uptight, nit-picking, Brit twee: Victorians were less priggish in their private behaviour than in their public image.
primary adj. 1 first, prime, principal, chief, main, leading, pre-eminent, cardinal, fundamental, basic, essential, predominant, elementary, elemental, underlying: The primary reason I want to see you is to discuss your future with the company. The primary meaning of a word is given first. 2 earliest, first, original, initial, primitive, primeval, primordial, embryonic, germinal, beginning, ultimate: The primary source of life was possibly a sort of soup containing proteins and other molecules. 3 firsthand, direct, immediate: Bauxite is the primary source of aluminium ore. 4 elementary, basic, rudimentary, fundamental: One of the primary lessons we are taught is consideration for others. 5 unmixed, unadulterated, pure, simple, rudimentary, fundamental, principal: The primary colours in art are red, yellow, and blue.
primitive adj. 1 first, original, aboriginal, earliest, primordial, primal, primeval or Brit also primaeval, pristine, prehistoric; antediluvian, Noachian or Noachic, old, ancient: In its most primitive state, life probably originated from some random strings of molecules. The most primitive farming tools date from some 10,000 years ago. 2 crude, rude, unrefined, raw, barbaric, uncultured, barbarian, coarse, rough, uncivilized, savage, uncultivated, unsophisticated, uncouth: I cannot tolerate Nigel's primitive table manners. 3 simple, basic, simplistic, nave, childlike, unsophisticated, uncultivated, unrefined, unpolished, rough, untutored, untaught, untrained, unschooled, undeveloped: Gary collects paintings of the primitive school and has one by Grandma Moses.
princely adj. 1 lavish, bountiful, generous, liberal, ample, substantial, huge, enormous: They paid a princely sum for their stately home in Surrey. 2 lavish, magnificent, splendid, luxurious, majestic, royal, regal, sumptuous, superb, Colloq ritzy, swank(y), posh, plush: The hotel laid on princely accommodation for us with rooms overlooking the sea. 3 royal, noble, regal, sovereign, of royal or noble blood or rank: Who would have thought that our humble home would ever shelter a princely guest?
principally adv. chiefly, mainly, first (and foremost), primarily, above all, in the main, mostly, for the most part, largely, predominantly, on the whole, at bottom, in essence, essentially, basically, fundamentally; especially, particularly: He seems to be interested principally in money, with little regard for anything else.
principled adj. moral, righteous, right-minded, virtuous, noble, high-minded, ethical, honourable, proper, correct, right, just, upright, honest, scrupulous: Michael is too highly principled to take bribes.
prior adj. 1 former, previous, earlier, one-time, ex, erstwhile; old, last, late, latest, Literary quondam, whilom: If you overdraw your account without prior arrangement, you will automatically be charged a higher rate of interest. 2 prior to. before, previous to, previously to, till, until, preceding: Prior to the earthquake, Valdivia was a river port.
prisoner n. convict, trusty; internee, detainee; Colloq jailbird or Brit also gaolbird, lifer, Slang con, Brit (old) lag, Old-fashioned ticket-of-leave man, US two-time or three-time loser: Prisoners' letters were censored.
pristine adj. 1 original, primal, basic, primeval or Brit also primaeval, primitive, primordial, earliest, first, initial: It is impractical to try to return the world to what some regard as its pristine purity. 2 uncorrupted, pure, unsullied, undefiled, virginal, virgin, chaste, untouched, unspoiled, unpolluted, untarnished, spotless, immaculate, natural: One must travel far today to experience the pristine beauty of nature. The car was in pristine condition.
private adj. 1 (top) secret, confidential, undisclosed, hidden, clandestine, concealed, covert, surreptitious, off the record, not for publication, unofficial, Colloq hush-hush: I think our relationship should be kept private for the time being. What I am about to tell you is strictly private. 2 privileged, restrictive, restricted, exclusive, special, reserved, personal, inaccessible, non-public; hidden, secluded, concealed, secret, sneaking: The house is situated on a private road. I had a private suspicion that they would cancel their trip. 3 personal, individual, own, intimate, particular: My private affairs are none of your business. 4 solitary, seclusive, reclusive, withdrawn, retiring, reticent, ungregarious, non-gregarious, unsocial, unsociable, antisocial, reserved, uncommunicative, hermitic(al), hermit-like, eremitic(al); sequestered, secluded, retired: You have to bear in mind that Edmund is a very private person. --n. 5 private soldier, infantryman, foot-soldier, US enlisted man, Colloq Brit Tommy, Tommy Atkins, squaddie, US GI (Joe), Slang US grunt: Before cashiering him, they reduced him from colonel to private. 6 in private. in secret, secretly, privately, sub rosa, personally, confidentially, behind closed doors, in camera, off the record, US on the qt or QT; clandestinely, secretively, sneakily, sneakingly, surreptitiously, furtively, covertly, on the sly: Family matters should be discussed only in private. They met in private with agents of the rebel forces. 7 private parts or privates. genitals, sexual or sex organs, genitalia. The natives wore loincloths to cover their private parts.
privilege n. benefit, advantage, right, prerogative, concession, allowance, indulgence, immunity, exemption, dispensation, freedom, liberty, franchise, permission, consent, leave, authorization, sanction, authority, licence, carte blanche: The children were given the privilege of choosing where the family should go on holiday.
privy adj. 1 See privileged, 4, above. 2 privy to. aware of, in on, on to or onto, sharing (in), cognizant of, apprised of, informed or advised about or of, informed on, knowledgeable about, Colloq in the know about, Slang hip to, wise to, Old-fashioned hep to: Was the minister's wife privy to what was discussed at cabinet meetings? --n. 3 lavatory, (outside or outdoor) toilet, latrine, water-closet, WC, US outhouse, Colloq chiefly Brit loo, Slang Brit bog, US crapper, Taboo slang US shithouse: In those days, almost every home had an outside privy, as there was no interior plumbing.
prize v. value, treasure, esteem, cherish, appreciate, rate highly, hold dear: I prize your friendship above all things.
probable adj. (most) likely, apt, (quite) possible, presumed, plausible, undoubted, indubitable, apparent, unquestionable, evident, ostensible, odds-on, feasible, believable, credible: The probable cause of the flooding was a blockage in the drains. It is probable that most medieval churches had paintings round the walls.
probe v. 1 explore, examine, scrutinize, investigate, search (into), look into, go into, study, dig into, delve into, poke about or around, Colloq poke into: They probed his background thoroughly but found nothing unusual. 2 poke, prod, explore, examine; plumb, dig: Snipe use their long bills to probe for worms in soft mud. --n. 3 investigation, examination, exploration, scrutiny, search, study, inquiry or enquiry, inquest: There will be a governmental probe into the mismanagement of the department.
problem n. 1 difficulty, trouble, question, dilemma, quandary, predicament, complication, hornet's nest, imbroglio, mess, muddle, stew, Colloq can of worms, fine kettle of fish, (pretty) pickle, Brit facer: The Chancellor must constantly deal with the problems of the country's economy. 2 puzzle, conundrum, poser, riddle, question, enigma, puzzler, Colloq mind-boggler, hard or tough nut to crack: The problem is how to get the yolk out without breaking the shell. --adj. 3 unruly, unmanageable, intractable, uncontrollable, difficult, ungovernable, refractory, incorrigible, obstreperous, delinquent, maladjusted, disturbed, emotionally upset: He teaches at a school where most of the students are problem children.
procedure n. way, conduct, course, action, course of action, method, methodology, mode, form, system, approach, strategy, plan (of action), scheme, modus operandi, operation, policy, ways and means; routine, tradition, practice, custom, wont, standard operating procedure, Colloq MO (= 'modus operandi'), SOP (= 'standard operating procedure'), Chiefly Brit drill: What procedure will you follow to regain the stolen property? The procedure in ballroom dancing has always been for the man to lead.
proceeding n. 1 measure, act, (course of) action, move, step, undertaking, deed, procedure, process, operation, transaction, manoeuvre, feat, accomplishment: Grace Darling's rescue of the shipwrecked men was truly a heroic proceeding. 2 proceedings. a transactions, report(s), minutes, record(s), annals, affairs, dealings, business, account(s), archives, Formal acta: The proceedings of the Society are published annually. b events, goings-on, doings; celebration(s); performance(s): The proceedings were briefly interrupted while the hecklers were ejected from the hall.
procession n. 1 parade, march, cavalcade, motorcade, cortege or cortge, column, line, file, train, march past: A strange procession of thousands of beggars silently wound its way through the city. 2 succession, cycle, sequence, string, train, chain, series, course, run, progression, cavalcade: He began to recount the procession of events that led up to the murder.
proclamation n. 1 announcement, advertisement, declaration, publication, promulgation, statement, manifesto, pronunciamento, notification, notice: A proclamation was issued granting amnesty to all political prisoners. 2 proclaiming, announcing, advertising, declaring, broadcasting, publishing, promulgating, heralding, making known, bruiting about: The proclamation of his appointment as Chancellor came at a bad time.
procure v. 1 obtain, acquire, get, come by, secure, get or lay one's hands on, get (a) hold of, gain, win, come into, pick up, find, appropriate, requisition; buy, purchase: I have been trying to procure early editions of Defoe's works. 2 accomplish, bring about, effect, cause, produce: Using every resource available to her, she finally procured his release.
prod v. 1 jab, dig, poke, nudge, elbow: Every time the comedian said something risqu, Aunt Flora would giggle and prod me in the ribs. 2 spur, urge, impel, egg on, push, thrust, prompt, rouse, stir, incite, move, motivate, actuate, activate, provoke, encourage, stimulate: My uncle keeps prodding me to continue with my studies. 3 incite, goad, needle, irritate, irk, annoy, pester, harass, hector, badger, plague, nag, hound, carp at, cavil; henpeck: My parents are constantly prodding me to go out and get a job. --n. 4 jab, dig, poke, nudge, elbow, push: I was quite black and blue from those prods I was getting from Aunt Flora. 5 goad, spur; needle, rowel: These days electrified cattle prods are available. 6 stimulus, push, prompt, reminder, signal, cue: Calvin needed that prod to make him finally go home after the party.
prodigality n. 1 wastefulness, waste, extravagance, excess, excessiveness, immoderation, intemperateness, wantonness, recklessness, profligacy, improvidence, dissipation, squandering: Surely his contemporaries must have condemned Shah Jehan's prodigality in building the Taj Mahal. 2 lavishness, profuseness, luxury, luxuriousness, luxuriance, abundance, plenty, bounty, bountifulness, bounteousness, copiousness, profusion, profuseness, sumptuousness, richness, plentifulness, plenteousness, superabundance, exuberance: The prodigality of Nature is unbounded.
prodigy n. 1 (child or girl or boy) genius, wonder child, Wunderkind, mastermind, talent, intellect, intellectual or mental giant, wizard, virtuoso, Colloq brain, Einstein, whiz-kid or whizz-kid, whiz or whizz, walking dictionary or encyclopedia or encyclopaedia: She was a prodigy at the age of six and went on to become a great concert performer. 2 wonder, marvel, phenomenon, sensation, miracle: Some regarded the painting Nude Descending a Staircase a prodigy of cubist art.
producer n. 1 maker, manufacturer, fabricator, processor, creator; grower, farmer: That company is the largest producer of microchips in the world. 2 (in Britain) director, auteur, impresario, regisseur; (in US and Canada) entrepreneur, (business or financial) manager, organizer, impresario: He was a producer of TV soap operas.
production n. 1 producing, manufacture, manufacturing, making, fabrication, preparation, origination, creation, output, putting out, development; formation, forming, forging, shaping, moulding, casting, assembly, building, construction: Our business is the production of insulating materials. 2 product, (end) result, work, effort, handiwork, output, opus, oeuvre: These paintings are clearly productions of a fertile imagination. 3 (in Britain) artistry, direction, staging; (in US and Canada) display, presentation, staging, mise en scne, setting: Both the acting and the production were superb. 4 drama, play, (stage or television or radio) show, performance; film, motion or moving picture, movie: Our repertory company is putting on a production of Othello next week.
profane adj. 1 irreverent, sacrilegious, blasphemous, idolatrous, irreligious, infidel, heathen, unbelieving, disbelieving, pagan, atheist(ic), impious, godless, ungodly, sinful, wicked, iniquitous, contemptuous, disrespectful: The faithful attacked anyone who was seen to perform a profane act. 2 unsanctified, unholy, unconsecrated, defiled, impure, unclean, unhallowed, non-religious, non-sacred, unsacred; lay, non-clerical, secular, temporal; Judaism tref or treif or treifa, non-kosher: The missionaries persuaded them to abandon their profane rites and practices. 3 bad, dirty, filthy, smutty, foul, foul-mouthed, obscene, vulgar, coarse, uncouth, low, taboo, blasphemous, bawdy, ribald, scurrilous, off colour, immodest, improper, naughty, indecent, unprintable, unmentionable, indecorous, indelicate, common; abusive, vituperative, venomous, thersitical, Literary Fescennine, Colloq blue: The boy was sent home from school for using profane language. --v. 4 debase, contaminate, pollute, taint, vitiate, degrade, defile, desecrate, violate, pervert, corrupt: They swore undying retribution against those who had profaned their temple.
profess v. 1 assert, claim, aver, asseverate, state, affirm, confirm, confess, declare, say, hold, maintain, present, offer, proffer, tender, set forth, put forward, pronounce, enounce, enunciate, announce, utter, vow, avow: He professed himself satisfied with the judge's decision. 2 pretend, lay claim, make a pretence, purport, act as if, simulate: They professed to be legitimate businessmen, but I was always suspicious.
profession n. 1 occupation, calling, work, field, vocation, employment, mtier, trade, business, craft, line, sphere, speciality or US specialty, job, position, post, situation, Slang racket: I know that she's a doctor, but what is her husband's profession? 2 confession, affirmation, statement, avowal, assertion, asseveration, declaration, acknowledgement, testimony, averment, admission, announcement: I was uncertain whether to believe his professions of love.
proficiency n. facility, skill, talent, adeptness, expertise, expertness, skilfulness, aptitude, capability, ability, dexterity, capability, competence or competency, ingenuity, knack, savoir faire, Colloq know-how: The proficiency he displayed as a racing-car driver was second to none.
profile n. 1 outline, silhouette, contour, side-view: His aquiline nose shows up prominently in this profile. 2 biography, (biographical or thumbnail or character) sketch, life, portrait, vignette: That profile of Allen in a well-known magazine did not do him justice. 3 analysis, study, survey, examination; graph, diagram, chart, list, statistics: The profile of the average newspaper reader revealed some interesting anomalies. --v. 4 describe, draw, sketch, limn: The editor phoned to say that they want to profile you in the Gazette's Sunday colour supplement.
profitable adj. 1 beneficial, productive, lucrative, fruitful, (well-)paying, well-paid, worthwhile, effective, cost-effective, gainful, remunerative, money-making, rewarding: I had never thought of being a pavement artist as a profitable enterprise. Playing professional golf can be very profitable - if you win tournaments. 2 beneficial, helpful, useful, utilitarian, valuable, worthwhile, advantageous, productive, rewarding: She gave me a lot of good advice that I found profitable in my professional life.
profligacy n. 1 debauchery, vice, immorality, sin, sinfulness, wickedness, evil, dissipation, dissoluteness, degeneracy, licentiousness, depravity, corruption, promiscuity, lechery, lasciviousness, lewdness, indecency, perversion, carnality, libertinism, wantonness, unrestraint, eroticism, sybaritism, voluptuousness, sensuality: Soho's reputation for profligacy is now much less deserved. 2 prodigality, extravagance, excess, waste, wastefulness, recklessness, exorbitance, lavishness, improvidence, squandering: The profligacy of the French court at the end of the 17th century was remarkable.
profound adj. 1 deep, unfathomable, abstruse, recondite, arcane, esoteric, intricate, knotty, involved, tricky, inscrutable, indecipherable, cabbalistic, incomprehensible, obscure, subtle, occult, secret, cryptic, puzzling, enigmatic, mystifying, mysterious: Some aspects of the theory of thought are even too profound for many specialists. 2 learned, scholarly, intellectual, erudite, discerning, astute, sagacious, sage, wise, penetrating, sharp, keen, insightful, analytical, knowledgeable, informed, well-informed, well-read: Russell was one of the most profound thinkers of his day. 3 deep, great, intense, sincere; heartfelt, keen, acute, utter, extreme, overpowering, overwhelming: He gave a profound sigh and fell asleep at once. It is with profound regret that I must tender my resignation. 4 utter, complete, total, perfect, absolute, thorough, thoroughgoing, out-and-out, downright, consummate; awful, terrible: Her casual attitude stems from her profound lack of awareness of how important the work is. I was immediately struck by the profound silence in the house. Profound changes are under way.
profundity n. 1 depth, profoundness, abstruseness, reconditeness, arcaneness, intricacy, subtlety, complexity, complicatedness, difficulty, inscrutability, involvement, involvedness; indecipherability, incomprehensibility, incomprehensibleness, obscurity: I wouldn't claim to have fully grasped the profundity of his ideas. 2 erudition, discernment, scholarship, scholarliness, sagacity, wisdom, sharpness, keenness, astuteness, acumen, insightfulness, knowledgeableness, knowledgeability: I was amazed by the profundity of the argument of one so young.
profusion n. profuseness, quantity, abundance, plenty, plentifulness, plenteousness, bounty, copiousness, superabundance; mass, host, hoard, number, multitude, lot, mountain, load, mess, stack, pile, heap, agglomeration, conglomeration, accumulation, wealth, glut, surplus, oversupply, surfeit, plethora, superfluity, Formal nimiety: Ivy grew in profusion over the front of the house. We had never seen such a profusion of bric--brac as they had collected.
progeny n. offspring, children, descendants, issue, young, posterity, heirs, scions, successors, sons and daughters, Colloq kids, spawn, fry, US sprouts: He dreamed that his progeny might have a freer, healthier life than his.
prognosticate v. 1 predict, foretell, prophesy, forecast, presage, divine, forebode: Those prophets of doom are always prognosticating disaster. 2 betoken, augur, herald, foreshadow, foretoken, announce, harbinger, signal, portend: The freshening breeze from the east prognosticates some rainy periods ahead.
progress n. 1 (forward) movement, going forward, progression, advance, headway, advancement: Progress through the dense underbrush was very slow. 2 advancement, advance, promotion, improvement, betterment, elevation, rise, development, furtherance: Her progress in the company might have been impeded by the fact that she was a woman. 3 advancement, course, development, growth, expansion, increase, evolution, maturation, ripening, burgeoning or bourgeoning, amplification, enlargement, spread, extension, broadening, promotion, furtherance, advance, encouragement: Our publishing credo is that every book must contribute to the progress of culture or knowledge. 4 in progress. under way, ongoing, going on, happening, occurring, taking place, at work, in operation, being done, proceeding, Colloq in the works: Some of the plans for reorganization are already in progress. --v. 5 advance, move or go (forwards or onwards), proceed, continue, go or forge ahead, go or move along, make (one's) way, make headway, travel, go or push or press on: Throughout the 19th century wagon trains of pioneers progressed across the prairies to settle the American West. I haven't progressed far enough in my reading to say whether I like the book or not. 6 advance, improve, get well, get better, develop, grow, expand, increase, evolve, mature, ripen, burgeon or bourgeon, amplify, enlarge, spread, extend, broaden, rise, move up, upgrade: Sarah's condition progressed to the point where she could get out of bed. Christmas sales of the new toy are progressing nicely. In only ten years, Michael progressed to a directorship in the company.
progressive adj. 1 advancing, continuing, developing, increasing, growing, ongoing, continuous, step by step, gradual: The doctors noted the progressive deterioration in his condition. With the onset of spring, we shall see progressive improvement in the weather. 2 reformist, revisionist, liberal, radical, revolutionary, avant-garde, advanced, dynamic: Carrie was soon regarded as one of the more progressive thinkers of her day. --n. 3 reformist, reformer, revisionist, liberal, leftist, left-winger: Once a conservative, he did a complete volte-face after the war and became a progressive.
prohibition n. 1 forbiddance, barring, bar, banning, ban, disallowance, disallowing, interdiction, interdicting, outlawing, outlawry, taboo, debarment, debarring, proscription, proscribing: Did the members vote for the prohibition of smoking on club premises? 2 bar, interdict, injunction, debarment, embargo, proscription, ban: Imposition of an excessively high tariff on imported computer components has amounted to the prohibition of their use in this country.
project n. 1 proposal, plan, scheme, design, layout: The project for housing low-income families had to be modified to allow for car parking. 2 activity, enterprise, programme, undertaking, venture, assignment, commitment, obligation, contract, engagement; occupation, job, work: What project will you move on to when you complete this one? --v. 3 plan, scheme, prepare, devise, conjure up, concoct, think up, contemplate, contrive, invent, work up or out, propose, present, outline, design, draft, draw up, delineate, describe, put forth or forward, Colloq cook up: In his theory, he projects a quite different causal relationship. 4 cast, hurl, fling, throw, toss, launch, propel, discharge; shoot, transmit; Colloq chuck, lob: A body projected into space will keep on travelling unless it strikes something. This device projects stereoscopic pictures on a screen. 5 jut out, stick out, protrude, stand out, bulge (out), extend (out), poke out, beetle (out), overhang: The cornice projects a full six feet over the street. 6 estimate, reckon, calculate, predict, forecast: The economists projected a decline in inflation over the coming months.
projection n. 1 protrusion, protuberance, bulge, extension, overhang, ledge, flange; ridge, eminence, prominence, spur, crag, outcropping: The safety line caught on a projection of the building, and the man was saved. That projection off to the north is covered with ice all year long. 2 proposal, outlining, mapping, mapping out, presenting, presentation: The projection of the plan for the new development must be effective for the council to accept it. 3 plan, scheme, blueprint, programme, design, proposal, outline, diagram, map, representation, planning: The council has approved the projection for the development of the waterfront. 4 estimate, prognostication, forecast, prediction, calculation, reckoning: These sales projections for next year are quite optimistic.
proliferation n. growth, increase, burgeoning or bourgeoning, expansion, spread, escalation, build-up, rise: Some attribute the increase in violent crime to the proliferation of hand-guns.
prolong v. extend, lengthen, elongate, stretch (out), draw or drag out, drag (on), keep up, string out, protract: Not wishing to prolong the agony, we left after the first act. Aunt Caroline prolonged her visit by yet another week.
prominence n. 1 celebrity, eminence, fame, distinction, notability, reputation, pre-eminence, standing, position, rank, prestige, renown, repute, importance, weight, influence, account, name, consequence: They are a family of considerable prominence in the county. She rose to prominence as an actress just last year. 2 hill, hillock, rise, hummock, outcrop, outcropping, spur, tor, crag, arte, spine, ridge, peak, mount, pinnacle; headland, point, promontory: We planted our flag on the prominence and constructed a small cairn. 3 protuberance, projection, protrusion, growth, excrescence, swelling, tumefaction, tumescence, extrusion, outshoot, outgrowth, spur, bulge: If that prominence on your elbow doesn't disappear in a day or so, I should see a doctor.
promiscuous adj. 1 indiscriminate, undiscriminating, unselective, non-selective, non-discriminatory, unconscientious, heedless, haphazard, indifferent, uncaring, uncritical, unfussy, unfastidious, disregardful, neglectful, negligent, slipshod, slovenly, irresponsible, careless, cursory, perfunctory, unthinking, thoughtless, unconsidered: The promiscuous massacre of civilians caused an international outcry. 2 lax, loose, unchaste, wanton, wild, uninhibited, unrestrained, ungoverned, uncontrolled, unbridled, uncurbed, immoderate, abandoned, amoral, immoral, indecent, libertine, licentious, dissipated, dissolute, depraved, profligate, debauched, fast; unfaithful, faithless, dishonourable: Nothing you say could persuade me to condone your promiscuous behaviour. 3 mixed, miscellaneous, heterogeneous, random, intermixed, jumbled, disorderly, disordered, confused, chaotic, motley, intermixed, intermingled, scrambled, unorganized, disorganized, unsystematic, unsystematized, helter-skelter, higgledy-piggledy, hotchpotch or US also hodgepodge: There is a somewhat promiscuous collection of books in his library that well reflects the eclecticism of his tastes.
promising adj. hopeful, encouraging, favourable, auspicious, positive, rosy, optimistic, propitious, cheering, full of promise, reassuring, heartening: I see a promising future for you as a dancer.
promotion n. 1 furtherance, advancement, advance, encouragement, support, backing, sanction, sanctioning, abetting, aiding, helping, assisting, boosting, fostering, nurturing, cultivation, development, developing, improvement, improving, inspiration, inspiriting, strengthening, stimulation, stimulating: The Society exists for the promotion of learning in a number of subjects. 2 advancement, advance, upgrading, upgrade, rise, elevation, preferment, exaltation: He was envied for his promotion to the highest ranking post in the department. 3 promoting, recommendation, presentation, espousal, commendation, advocacy, championing: I am grateful for your promotion of my name for the job. 4 advertising, publicity, public relations, propaganda, selling, hard or soft sell, fanfare, plugging, Colloq puffery, Slang (media) hype, Chiefly US ballyhoo, hoop-la: The manufacturer spent millions on the promotion of the new cola. 5 advertisement, advertising, circular, brochure, handbill, bill, hand-out, leaflet, poster, affiche, placard, publicity, space, (publicity) release, hoarding, US and Canadian flier or flyer, billboard, broadside, Colloq US puff piece, poop sheet: The promotions for the new detergent use the celebrity endorsement technique.
promptly adv. quickly, at once, straightaway or straight away, directly, right away, immediately, without delay or hesitation, unhesitatingly, swiftly, speedily, readily, instantly, instantaneously, punctually, expeditiously, with celerity, with alacrity, Colloq US and Canadian momentarily: If this bill is not paid promptly, we shall have to discontinue your credit arrangements.
pronounce v. 1 declare, utter, say, voice, express, articulate, enunciate, vocalize, put into words: He pronounced a curse on the family. Try to pronounce it one syllable at a time. 2 declare, affirm, proclaim, announce, decree, judge, aver, state, asseverate, assert, say to be: I now pronounce you man and wife. The doctor pronounced mother to be out of danger. 3 announce, proclaim, promulgate, publicize, publish, deliver, broadcast, make known, let (something) be known, put out or forth, set forth; pass: The judge will pronounce sentence tomorrow.
pronouncement n. 1 statement, assertion, observation, comment, opinion, announcement, proclamation, pronunciamento, manifesto, declaration, avowal, affirmation, asseveration, averment, promulgation: Occasionally he would issue a pronouncement on the sad state of English usage. 2 judgement, decree, edict, proclamation, dictum, command, ukase, (papal) bull, imperative, order, ordinance: The authorities made several official pronouncements regarding travel restrictions.
proof n. 1 evidence, verification, corroboration, confirmation, validation, authentication, ratification, substantiation; documentation, document, facts, data, certification, testimony, Colloq ammunition: Is there any proof that she was with you? The prosecution claims to have enough proof of his guilt to convict him of embezzlement. 2 test, trial, measure, standard, touchstone, criterion: Do you intend to put his loyalty to the proof? The proof of the pudding is in the eating. --adj. 3 impervious, impenetrable, able to withstand or resist, protective, strong, tough, impregnable, resistant, tempered: They maintain that this armour is proof against a nine-inch shell.
propaganda n. 1 agitprop, disinformation, Newspeak, rumours, lies: The state-controlled media spread propaganda about minorities to foster nationalism. 2 advertising, promotion, publicity, public relations, puff, fanfare, Colloq puffery, ballyhoo, Slang hype, US hoop-la, whoop-de-do or whoop-de-doo: All that propaganda was merely to launch a new washing-powder!
propel v. drive, impel, move, actuate, set in motion, get moving, move, push, thrust, force, send, launch, start: Each galley was propelled by huge oars. The capsule is propelled by a rocket. Job opportunities propelled her to move to Bristol.
properly adv. 1 appropriately, fittingly, correctly, well, becomingly, suitably, politely, decently, decorously, nicely: If you cannot behave properly I shall have to ask you to leave. 2 duly, appropriately, well, suitably, rightly, correctly, aptly: Are they properly equipped for the rescue mission?
prophecy n. 1 forecasting, foretelling, prediction, fortune-telling, divination, soothsaying, augury, prognostication, crystal-gazing, Formal vaticination: The prophecy of future events lies outside the realm of science. 2 prediction, forecast, prognosis, revelation: Her prophecy warned of ice storms that would ravage the earth.
prophet n. prophetess, oracle, forecaster, seer, soothsayer, clairvoyant, prognosticator, fortune-teller, augur, diviner, witch, warlock, sibyl, haruspex, vaticinator; (of doom) Cassandra: Statistically, the weather prophets have a fair record of accuracy.
propitiatory adj. 1 conciliatory, pacifying, appeasing, expiatory, placative, propitiative, pacificatory, placatory: He said that he was truly sorry and held out a propitiatory hand. 2 deferential, ingratiating, obliging, obeisant, acquiescent, compliant, tractable: He was most propitiatory in his treatment of his stepchildren.
proponent n. proposer, promoter, supporter, upholder, backer, subscriber, patron, espouser, adherent, enthusiast, champion, friend, partisan, defender, advocate, exponent, pleader, apologist, spokesman, spokeswoman, spokesperson: Ashley is a staunch proponent of the literacy movement.
proportional adj. proportionate, proportioned, comparable, analogous, analogical, relative, related, correlated, balanced, symmetrical, corresponding, compatible, harmonious, consistent, commensurate, in accordance with: The zeal with which their ideals are defended is directly proportional to the fierceness with which they are attacked.
propose v. 1 offer, tender, proffer; present, introduce, submit, advance, set forth, put forward, propound, bid, recommend, suggest, come up with, call attention to, broach, Brit table: Management proposed a wage increase of five per cent. The architect proposed that we consider an addition to the north wing. 2 offer, mean, intend, plan, expect, aim: We propose to make a start on the decorating once we have had our lunch. 3 nominate, name, put forward or forth, suggest, introduce, submit, put up: His boss proposed him for membership of the golf club.
propound v. put or set forth or forward, propose, offer, proffer, suggest, postulate: It was she who first propounded the idea of a unified country.
propriety n. 1 correctness, properness, conformity, suitableness, appropriateness, suitability, aptness, fitness, seemliness, decorum; advisability, wisdom: I questioned the propriety of concealing this information from shareholders. 2 protocol, good or proper form, punctilio, etiquette, politeness, courtesy, politesse, refinement, sedateness, dignity, modesty, decorum, decency, breeding, respectability, gentility, grace, mannerliness: He always behaved with the utmost propriety in the presence of his aunt. 3 the proprieties. the social graces, the amenities, the civilities, formality or the formalities, social convention or the social conventions, social procedure or codes, accepted practice, tradition, ceremony, ritual: He only observes the proprieties when he wants to make a good impression.
prosaic adj. dull, banal, overdone, tedious, clichd, commonplace, stereotyped, pedestrian, flat, stereotypical, hackneyed, stock, routine, everyday, ordinary, common, workaday, mediocre, undistinguished, bland, characterless, homely, plain, trite, stale, threadbare, tired, lifeless, dead, dry, jejune, boring, tiresome, unimaginative, unpoetic, unromantic, uninspiring, uninspired, insipid, uninteresting, humdrum, monotonous, Literary ennuyant, Colloq ho-hum, run-of-the-mill, mouldy: She found the law too prosaic and trained to become a jockey.
prosecute v. 1 arraign, indict, charge, put on or bring to trial, try, take to court, sue, bring suit or action against, accuse, Brit put in the dock: She threatened to prosecute him for slander. 2 pursue, follow up or through, see or carry through, persist, go on with: Will the same policy will be prosecuted in other countries? 3 carry on or out, perform, do, exercise, conduct, follow, engage in, practise, continue: The government needs popular support if it is to continue to prosecute the war successfully.
prospective adj. anticipated, expected, awaited, looked-for, future, forthcoming, coming, approaching, imminent, nearing, pending, impending, destined, potential, incipient: Jane's prospective wedding had excited the entire family.
prosper v. flourish, thrive, succeed, fare well, progress, get ahead, grow, develop; profit, gain, become wealthy, grow rich, make one's fortune, make good, Colloq make it, make one's pile: With hard work, thrift, and perseverance, MacIntosh prospered and was soon able to buy the house he wanted.
prosperous adj. 1 rich, wealthy, moneyed or monied, affluent, well-to-do, well off, Colloq well-heeled, loaded, flush, in the money, rolling in it or wealth or money, in clover, on Easy Street, Slang stinking rich: Anyone who owns six houses and four yachts must be prosperous. 2 successful, thriving, flourishing, booming, prospering: Frank owns a prosperous chain of video shops.
prostitution n. 1 whoredom, harlotry, the oldest profession, Mrs Warren's profession, streetwalking, vice: They argued strongly against the legalization of prostitution, saying that it would lead to a decline in public morals. 2 degradation, debasement, profanation, defilement, desecration, misuse, abuse, devaluation, lowering, perversion, corruption: Don't you regard pornography as a prostitution of the principle of freedom of expression?
prostration n. 1 genuflection or Brit also genuflexion, kowtowing, kowtow, kneeling, bowing, bow, salaaming, salaam, submission: Prostration before a superior was a mark of honour. 2 servility, veneration, worship, humiliation, respect, adulation, deference, obeisance, homage: Their silence betokened the profound prostration they felt before her superior intellect. 3 despair, misery, desolation, desperation, dejection, depression, despondency, wretchedness, unhappiness, grief, woe, woefulness: Years of poverty created in him a spiritual prostration from which he never recovered. 4 weariness, exhaustion, weakness, debility, feebleness, enervation, lassitude, paralysis, collapse, breakdown: The diagnosis was nervous prostration and the treatment was bed rest for a week or more.
protean adj. variable, ever-changing, multiform, variable, mutable, changeable, labile, polymorphous or polymorphic, kaleidoscopic: The magic ring gave him protean powers to appear now as an eagle, now as a serpent.
protection n. 1 defence, screen, shield, barrier, guard, safeguard, immunity, bulwark, buffer, shelter, refuge, haven, sanctuary, security, safe keeping, safety, preservation: They have not yet developed any protection from the common cold. How can we offer these fledglings protection against predators? 2 care, guardianship, aegis, custody, charge, safe keeping, patronage, sponsorship, keeping: Even under the protection of the government, elephants continue to be slaughtered. 3 extortion, blackmail, protection money: If we refuse to pay protection, they say that they will bomb the restaurant.
protector n. protectress, defender, benefactor, benefactress, patron, patroness, guardian (angel), champion, knight in shining armour, paladin, bodyguard, Slang Brit minder: She came to regard him as her friend and protector.
protest n. 1 objection, opposition, complaint, grumble, grievance, dissent, disapproval, protestation, exception, disagreement, demur or demurral, demurrer, disclaimer, denial, scruple, compunction, qualm, Colloq gripe, grouse, squawk, US kick, Slang beef, bitch: The Home Office has received many protests about the treatment of prisoners. 2 under protest. unwillingly, reluctantly, involuntarily: I paid the fine under protest. --v. 3 object, oppose, complain, grumble, dissent, disapprove, take exception, take issue with, disagree, demur, disclaim, deny, scruple, Colloq gripe, grouse, squawk, Brit kick (against), US kick, Slang beef, bitch: Bank employees protested at being expected to work on Saturday mornings. 4 assert, confirm, declare, aver, asseverate, affirm, announce, profess, insist on, avow, avouch: The convicted man went to the gallows protesting his innocence.
prototype n. 1 model, archetype, first, original, pattern, exemplar, precedent, mould: Many improvements were made as a result of tests on the original prototype. 2 example, instance, illustration, sample, norm, paragon, epitome, model, standard, analogue, referent, metaphor: Mrs Grundy is a common prototype for narrow-mindedness and prudishness.
protrude v. stick out, jut (out), project, extend, poke out, stand out, thrust out or forward, start (from), exsert, Rare extrude; bulge, balloon, bag (out), belly (out); (of the eyes) pop, goggle, Colloq US bug (out): Only the very tops of the plants protruded from the snow.
protuberant adj. protrusive, protruding, bulging, gibbous, jutting, bulbous, swelling, swollen, turgid, tumescent, distended, tumid, extrusive, excrescent, extruding, projecting, beetling, overhanging, prominent: She has large brown eyes that are a little protuberant.
prove v. 1 verify, authenticate, confirm, make good, corroborate, demonstrate, show, validate, establish, substantiate, certify, affirm; support, sustain, back (up), uphold: Prove that he lied under oath, and we shall have him for perjury. If you cannot prove her guilt, she must be presumed innocent. 2 try, test, examine, check, analyse, assay: Division can easily be proved by multiplication, and vice versa. The proving ground for military vehicles is off limits to the public. Come live with me and be my love, And we shall all the pleasures prove. 3 turn out, be found, be shown, be established, end up; develop, result: The child proved to be his long-lost grandson. 4 show, evince, demonstrate: He proved his love many times over during their fifty years of marriage.
proverb n. saying, maxim, aphorism, saw, adage, apophthegm or apothegm, axiom, moral, moralism, homily, dictum, gnome, epigram, commonplace, platitude, truism, clich, bromide: According to the old proverb, 'A fool and his money are soon parted'.
provide v. 1 supply, furnish, equip, outfit, fix up (with) provision, contribute, accommodate, purvey, cater, stock (up), victual, provender: After providing us with a map and a compass, they sent us off across the moor. 2 produce, yield, afford, lend, give, present, offer, accord: The fertile land provided food in plentiful abundance. During those bleak years, the radio provided us not only with news but also entertainment. 3 stipulate, lay down, require, demand, specify, state: The lease provided that the rent be reviewed every five years. 4 provide for. look after, care for, support, take care of, take under one's wing, minister to, attend (to): The bequest ensured that his widow would be amply provided for. 5 provide for or against. arrange for, prepare for, anticipate, forearm, make or get ready for, plan for, take precautions, take measures: It would seem that you have provided for any eventuality.
provident adj. 1 cautious, wary, discreet, canny, prudent, careful, vigilant, prepared, far-sighted, thoughtful, wise, shrewd, sagacious, sage, judicious: In the fable, the grasshopper learns from the ant what it means to be provident. 2 frugal, economic(al), thrifty, prudent: Because he is not a provident man, he will always be poor.
providing conj. Sometimes, providing that. provided (that), on (the) condition (that), if (only), only if, as long as, in the event (that), with the proviso (that), in case, with the understanding (that): Simon is always ready to go out to dinner, providing someone else pays for it.
provincial adj. 1 local, regional: Provincial administration is the responsibility of the sheriff. 2 uncultured, uncultivated, unsophisticated, limited, uninformed, nave, innocent, ingenuous, unpolished, unrefined, homespun, rustic, rude, country, parochial, insular, narrow-minded, boorish, loutish, cloddish, awkward, ungraceful, oafish, backwood(s), Brit parish pump, US small-town, Colloq US and Canadian hick, hick-town: These paintings are unlikely to appeal to provincial tastes. --n. 3 rustic, country cousin, (country) bumpkin, yokel, US and Canadian out-of-towner, hick, hayseed: One could tell they were provincials by the cut of their clothes.
provision n. 1 providing, supplying, furnishing; catering, victualling, provisioning, purveyance, purveying, furnishing, equipping, fitting out, outfitting, accoutrement, equipment: The school is responsible for the provision of textbooks. The provision of a cruise ship of that size requires days. 2 stipulation, proviso, condition, restriction, qualification, clause, term, exception, demand, requirement, prerequisite, Colloq catch, string, US hooker: This provision of the contract calls for a penalty for each day's delay beyond the guaranteed completion date. 3 preparation, prearrangement, arrangement, measures, steps: They had failed to make provision for so many customers and soon ran out of food. 4 Usually, provisions. supplies, stores, stockpile, stock(s), quantity; food, foodstuffs, eatables, edibles, drinkables, potables, victuals, viands, comestibles, rations, groceries, provender, staples: We had enough provisions to last a year. --v. 5 stockpile, stock, supply, victual, cater, purvey: They provisioned the expedition for a three-month period.
proviso n. See provision, 2. above.
provocative adj. 1 inviting, alluring, tempting, charming, tantalizing, teasing, intriguing, fascinating, seductive, stimulating, voluptuous, sensual, sensuous, suggestive, erotic, arousing, exciting, entrancing, irresistible, bewitching, Colloq sexy: The council found the film too provocative to be shown to schoolchildren. 2 irritating, annoying, galling, irksome, nettlesome, harassing, plaguing, exasperating, infuriating, angering, incensing, maddening, enraging, vexing, vexatious, disquieting, challenging, upsetting, distressing, disturbing, outrageous, wounding, stinging, offensive, humiliating, mortifying: She is given to making provocative remarks that drive him to distraction.
prowess n. 1 ability, skill, skilfulness, aptitude, adroitness, dexterity, dexterousness, adeptness, facility, finesse, expertise, mastery, genius, talent, know-how, ingenuity, capability, proficiency: Her prowess as a sculptor is unquestioned. 2 bravery, valour, courage, boldness, daring, intrepidity, dauntlessness, mettle, stout-heartedness, valiance, lion-heartedness, fearlessness, gallantry, doughtiness, fortitude: He was famed for his prowess in single combat.
proximity n. nearness, closeness, adjacency, neighbourhood, vicinity, vicinage, contiguity, contiguousness, propinquity: The proximity of the airport kept housing prices relatively low.
prude n. prig, puritan, Mrs Grundy, Colloq goody-goody, US bluenose: He was a bit of a prude and disapproved of anything even slightly suggestive.
prudent adj. 1 careful, cautious, discreet, discerning, wise, sage, sagacious, politic, judicious, discriminating, sensible, reasonable, canny, shrewd, cautious, circumspect, watchful, vigilant, heedful, wary, attentive, alert, guarded: James had always found it prudent to listen to others before speaking his mind. 2 provident, thrifty, economic(al), frugal, prudential: Father favours prudent, conservative management of the family business.
prudish adj. priggish, puritanical, old-maidish, prissy, prim, fussy, squeamish, strait-laced, stiff, rigid, over-nice, over-modest, over-coy, proper, demure, decorous, formal: Victorian society was both prudish and prurient.
prurient adj. 1 libidinous, lecherous, lascivious, lewd, lubricious or lubricous, salacious, lustful, concupiscent, licentious, carnal, debauched, rakehell, sensual, randy, voluptuous, loose, goatish, ruttish, Literary Cyprian, Paphian, Archaic lickerish or liquorish, Slang horny, hot: The press takes a prurient interest in the private lives of famous people. 2 dirty, lewd, filthy, pornographic, smutty, obscene, foul, scurrilous, vile, indecent, gross, lurid, blue, bawdy, ribald, titillating, suggestive, coarse, vulgar, low, crude, Literary Fescennine: The police raid uncovered a store of prurient literature, films, and videos.
pseudonym n. nom de plume, nom de guerre, alias, pen-name, stage name, incognito: 'George Eliot' was the pseudonym of Mary Ann Evans.
psychic adj. 1 psychical, mental, spiritual, psychologic(al), subjective, psychogenic, cognitive, metaphysic(al), intellectual, cerebral; philosophic(al): The psychic effect of losing a loved one can have physical repercussions. 2 psychical, extrasensory, supernatural, occult, magical, telepathic, telekinetic, preternatural, spiritualistic, unearthly, extramundane, supermundane: Many psychic phenomena have never been satisfactorily explained. --n. 3 medium, spiritualist, clairvoyant, mind-reader, telepathist, seer, seeress, crystal-gazer, soothsayer, astrologer, fortune-teller, prophet, prophetess, sibyl: We were disturbed to learn that our political leaders consulted psychics.
psychology n. (mental) make-up, constitution, attitude, behaviour, thought processes, thinking, psyche, nature, feeling(s), emotion(s), rationale, reasoning: I cannot understand the psychology of fascism.
puberty n. pubescence, sexual maturity, adolescence, juvenescence, teens; nubility: The anxiety of parents for the health of an infant is as nothing compared with their concerns when their child reaches puberty.
publication n. 1 dissemination, promulgation, publicizing, publishing, proclamation, issuance, reporting, announcement, advertisement, advertising, pronouncement, airing, putting out, revelation, declaration, appearance: The publication of the news about the sale of the company was no surprise to us. 2 book, booklet, pamphlet, brochure, leaflet, broadside or broadsheet, flier or flyer, handbill, hand-out; periodical, magazine, journal, newsletter, newspaper, paper, broadsheet, tabloid; annual, semi-annual, quarterly, bimonthly, monthly, semi-monthly, fortnightly, biweekly, weekly, hebdomadal or hebdomedary, semi-weekly, daily: He buys every publication he can find dealing with model railways.
publish v. make public, put out, broadcast, spread (about or around), advertise, make known, let (something) be known, announce, publicize, report, proclaim, promulgate, bruit about, reveal, divulge, disclose, break the news (about), Colloq leak: The minister resigned the day the news of the scandal was published.
puerile adj. childish, immature, babyish, infantile, juvenile, silly, asinine, foolish, trivial, ridiculous, irresponsible, shallow, inconsequential, insignificant, US sophomoric: Stop that puerile horseplay and settle down.
pugilism n. boxing, prizefighting; the manly art of self-defence, fisticuffs; Colloq the boxing or fight game: His career in pugilism came to an abrupt end in the second minute of the third round.
pugnacious adj. aggressive, belligerent, combative, quarrelsome, bellicose, antagonistic, argumentative, hostile, litigious, contentious, disputatious, disagreeable, fractious, petulant, testy, irascible, hot-tempered, choleric, unfriendly, curmudgeonly, irritable, short-tempered: The Gothic tribes were very pugnacious, always ready to fight with little or no provocation.
puling adj. whining, wailing, querulous, whimpering, snivelling, weeping, caterwauling: The third-class carriage was filled with chickens, pigs, and puling infants.
pulley n. sheave, block: The rope is run through a system of pulleys, called a tackle, for lifting weights.
pulsate v. beat, pulse, throb, pound, thrum, drum, thump, thud, reverberate, hammer, palpitate, vibrate; oscillate, quiver: Throughout the voyage, I could feel the ship's engines pulsating.
pulverize v. 1 powder, comminute, grind, crush, mill, granulate, crumble, break up, bray, pound, Technical triturate, levigate: This machine pulverizes the rock, after which the binding agents are added. 2 devastate, destroy, demolish, crush, smash, shatter, ruin, wreck, annihilate: The four battalions were pulverized in the attack.
pun n. play on words, quip, (bon) mot, witticism, double entendre, Literary equivoque, Technical paronomasia: Dennis made some awful pun on 'nose' and 'knows' that nobody got.
punch n. 1 awl, auger, bodkin, perforator; drill, brace and bit: Use the punch to make another hole in your belt. --v. 2 pierce, stab, puncture, perforate; bore, drill: She uses a needle to punch a tiny hole in each end of the egg.
punctuate v. 1 interrupt, break, intersperse; pepper, sprinkle: The speeches were punctuated by frequent shouts from the audience. 2 accent, accentuate, underline, underscore, emphasize, stress, mark: He punctuated each element of his argument with a sharp rap of his pencil on the lectern.
pungent adj. 1 spicy, hot, sharp, strong, penetrating, aromatic, seasoned, peppery, piquant, tangy, flavourful, tasty, sapid: The pungent odours of devilled kidneys dominated the dining-room. 2 sharp, biting, stinging, caustic, severe, astringent, stern, acrid, harsh, sour, acid, tart, acrimonious, bitter, cutting, keen, barbed, trenchant, scathing, incisive, mordant, sarcastic: This week's Review carries a pungent criticism of his new novel. 3 distressing, upsetting, poignant, painful, hurtful, penetrating, piercing, stabbing, intense, severe, acute, agonizing, oppressive, excruciating, racking, consuming: Only when surgery eased the pressure was he relieved of the pungent pain.
punishing adj. gruelling, hard, arduous, strenuous, laborious, exhausting, tiring, wearying, fatiguing, wearing, taxing, demanding, burdensome, back-breaking, torturous: Laying railway track was the most punishing job I ever had. This punishing schedule is beginning to tell on me.
punitive adj. chastening, castigatory, disciplinary, retributive, punitory, retaliatory, correctional: A punitive expedition was sent there to quell the colonists' uprising.
punt v. 1 bet, wager, stake, gamble, speculate, lay a bet or stake or wager: Herbert spends all the grocery money punting at the races. --n. 2 bet, wager, stake, gamble: In roulette, Janet always placed her punt on number 14.
puny adj. 1 small, little, insignificant, petty, unimportant, inconsequential, paltry, trivial, trifling, minor, negligible, nugatory, of little or no account, inferior, worthless, useless, Colloq piddling, Slang Brit not much cop: Farr's contribution to the success of the business was really quite puny. 2 small, little, diminutive, tiny, minute: Mattson looks so puny alongside that sumo wrestler. 3 weak, feeble, frail, sickly, weakly, underfed, undernourished, undersized, underdeveloped, stunted, dwarf, midget, pygmy: You cannot expect such a puny chap to lift such a great weight.
pupil n. student, learner, scholar, schoolchild, schoolgirl, schoolboy, disciple, apprentice; beginner, novice, neophyte, tiro or tyro, Chiefly ecclesiastical catechumen: A number of Geoffrey's former pupils have organized a dinner to honour him.
purchase v. 1 buy, acquire, procure, obtain, get, secure, pay for: He recently purchased a new personal computer and cannot get it to work. Not long ago, a shilling purchased a loaf of bread. 2 win, gain, achieve, realize, attain, obtain: His liberty was purchased by the betrayal of his colleagues. --n. 3 acquisition, acquiring, buying, purchasing, obtaining, securing, procurement: The purchase of books for the university library is the responsibility of Monica Turnbull. 4 buy, acquisition: Tom returned from the shop carrying his purchases. 5 grip, hold, support, toe-hold, foothold, grasp; leverage, position, advantage, edge: The climber was having trouble getting a good purchase on the icy ledge.
pure-bred adj. full-blooded, thoroughbred, pedigreed: We raise only pure-bred Angus cattle.
purge v. 1 cleanse, purify, clean (out), clear, scour (out), depurate, deterge, wash (out): The tanks must be purged before filling them with the new fuel. 2 eject, eradicate, expel, eliminate, get rid of, dismiss, clear out or away, sweep away or out, oust, remove, rout out, weed out, root out; do away with, exterminate, liquidate, kill, destroy: After the coup, the old guard was purged from all the governmental agencies. The rebels purged the entire council of elders. 3 clear, exonerate, absolve, forgive, purify, pardon, exculpate: He was given every opportunity to purge himself of the charge of contempt of court. --n. 4 ejection, eradication, expulsion, elimination, dismissal, clearing out or away, ousting, ouster, removal, routing out, weeding out, rooting out, unseating; defenestration; extermination, liquidation, killing, murder, slaughter: The bloody purge of dissidents was carried out by the secret police. 5 See purgative, 1, above.
purist n. pedant, precisian, formalist, stickler, blue-stocking, dogmatist, Pharisee, fanatic, Colloq die-hard, stuffed shirt: Language purists are often unaware of their own grammatical and semantic blunders.
purity n. 1 pureness, faultlessness, correctness, flawlessness, perfection, spotlessness, cleanness, cleanliness, clarity; healthfulness, wholesomeness, salubrity; innocuousness, harmlessness: The purity of the drinking-water has been affected by the nearby chemical plant. 2 chastity, chasteness, virginity, virtuousness, virtue, morality, propriety, honesty, integrity, rectitude, properness, innocence, guilelessness, decency, decorousness, modesty, blamelessness, sinlessness: We never had any reason to doubt the purity of their character.
purposeful adj. intentional, intended, planned, deliberate, resolved, settled, determined, resolute, decided, confirmed, affirmed, sure, certain, positive, definite, staunch, steadfast, persistent, strong-willed, dogged, tenacious, pertinacious, unfailing, unfaltering, firm, fixed: Her purposeful manner inclines other people to defer to her.
purse n. 1 pouch, (money-)bag, wallet, pocket, Dialect poke, Highland dress sporran, US and Canadian (woman's) handbag, pocketbook, bag: The money goes out so fast I think there is a hole in my purse. 2 money, wealth, resources, funds, finances, exchequer, treasury, capital, revenue, income, means, cash, riches; pounds, shillings, and pence, LSD, dollars, shekels, Derogatory Mammon, pelf, (filthy) lucre, US almighty dollar, Slang Brit ready or readies, lolly, dosh, loot, dough, US and Canadian bucks, scratch: The spread of capitalism shows that the power of a man's purse can transcend his political idealism. 3 prize, reward, award, present, gift: The purse for the next race will be 5,000 guineas. --v. 4 pucker (up), contract, wrinkle, compress, press together: Robert pursed his lips thoughtfully.
pursuit n. 1 pursuing, chasing, following, hunting, hunt, going or running after, tracing, trailing, tracking, running down, dogging, stalking, shadowing, Brit chivvy or chivy or chevy, Colloq tailing: We all joined in the pursuit of the animal. The police set off in hot pursuit of the thieves. 2 pursuance, striving after, seeking, searching, search, looking for: Many think that the pursuit of wealth is the only worthwhile thing in life. 3 work, line (of work), employment, field, area, speciality or US and Canadian only specialty, specialization, business, profession, trade, vocation, calling, career, life-work, activity; hobby, pastime, avocation, interest; Slang racket: What pursuits are open to Jack Ketch now that hanging has been abolished?
pushover n. 1 sure thing, Colloq piece of cake, child's play, snap, cinch, picnic, walk-over, US breeze, Slang cinch, Brit doddle, US lead-pipe cinch: The Latin exam was a pushover. 2 Colloq walk-over, chump, soft touch, soft or easy mark, easy prey or game, Slang patsy, sucker, stooge, sap, Brit mug, US and Canadian milquetoast: I spotted him at once as a pushover for the find-the-lady con.
pussyfoot v. 1 sneak, creep, slink, prowl, steal, tiptoe: I wish she'd stop pussyfooting about the house. 2 beat about the bush, hem or hum and haw, equivocate, hesitate, be evasive, evade the issue, prevaricate, tergiversate, be noncommittal, be or sit on the fence, blow hot and cold: Don't pussyfoot with me - just come out and say what you really think.
put-down n. dig, sneer, snub, disparaging or denigrating remark, slight, offence, insult: The worst put-down was to tell her she looks like her sister, whom she hates.
putrefy v. rot, decompose, decay, moulder, go bad, spoil, deteriorate, go off: The battlefield was strewn with putrefying bodies.
put-up adj. (secretly) preconceived, prearranged, plotted, preconcerted: If the butler had a hand in it, you know it was a put-up job.
puzzle v. 1 baffle, bewilder, confuse, confound, mystify, flummox, perplex, nonplus, stymie, stump: I am completely puzzled by what you wrote in your last letter. 2 Usually, puzzle over. study, ponder (over), mull over, contemplate, meditate on or upon or over, consider, muse over or on, reflect on or over, think about or over or on: If you puzzle over it long enough, the problem may vanish of its own accord. 3 puzzle out. solve, decipher, crack (the code), unravel, work out, figure out, think through, sort out, unlock: I finally puzzled out the inscription on this old coin. It might take a while, but I can puzzle out the solution to this crossword. --n. 4 enigma, problem, question, paradox, poser, mystery, riddle, conundrum, Colloq brain-teaser: The puzzle is how the murder was committed when the door was locked from the inside.
quack n. 1 charlatan, impostor, pretender, fake(r), fraud, Colloq phoney or US also phony: The quack diagnosed Franny as having appendicitis, but it turned out that she was pregnant. --adj. 2 fake, fraudulent, sham, counterfeit, Colloq phoney or US also phony: Are you still going to see that quack doctor the one who told you to take aspirin to relieve the pain from your ulcer?
quake v. 1 tremble, shake, quiver, shudder; vibrate, stagger: The children were quaking with fear that their teacher would come back and catch them red-handed. 2 earthquake, tremor, temblor or trembler or tremblor, seismic(al) activity, Rare seism: In a few moments the quake levelled three cities that had stood for thousands of years.
qualified adj. 1 able, suitable, capable, competent, fit, fitted, equipped, prepared, ready, trained, proficient, accomplished, expert, talented, adept, skilful, skilled, experienced, practised, knowledgeable, well-informed: Is Kimble qualified to become foreman? 2 contingent, conditional, restricted, modified, limited, provisional: The chairman has given his qualified approval to the scheme.
quality n. 1 property, attribute, characteristic, mark, distinction, je ne sais quoi, trait: Can you describe the qualities needed to be a good musician? 2 grade, calibre, rank, status, importance, value, worth: In the curiosity shop items of high and low quality are mixed together haphazardly. 3 Old-fashioned eminence, prominence, importance, excellence, superiority, distinction, standing, supremacy, dignity, grandeur, nobility, blue blood: Despite her shabby appearance, from her bearing and speech the woman was clearly a person of quality.
quandary n. dilemma, predicament, difficulty, plight, cleft stick, uncertainty: The management is in a quandary: should it risk overstretching the company by making further capital investment, or should it risk being left behind by its competitors by playing safe?
quarrel n. 1 dispute, argument, disagreement, debate, controversy, discord, difference (of opinion), contention, misunderstanding; wrangle, tiff, row, squabble, altercation, set-to, scuffle, feud, fight, fray, fracas, brawl, Donnybrook, mle or melee, riot, battle (royal), Colloq dust-up, barney, scrap, US spat: I have no quarrel with my accountant - it's the tax man that's the problem. A quarrel broke out over whose turn it was to wash the dishes. --v. 2 argue, disagree, dispute, altercate, have an altercation, differ, wrangle, be at odds or loggerheads, clash, squabble, feud, fight, brawl, battle, Colloq fall out, scrap: When we were children, my sister and I quarrelled all the time, but we still loved each other.
quarry n. prey, game, prize, object: The hunter's dogs had run their quarry to ground. Wealthy widows were regarded as fair quarry by the swindlers.
quarter n. 1 fourth: Statistics showed that a quarter of the population attended church regularly. 2 three-month period, three months, ninety days, thirteen weeks; fifteen minutes; phase (of the moon), quadrature: The first quarter's rent is now due. We waited a quarter of an hour. The moon is in its third quarter. 3 area, region, part, section, district, zone, division, territory, place, neighbourhood, locality, locale, location, point, spot; direction: The army was called in to patrol the quarter of the city where looting had occurred. It was difficult to tell from which quarter the wind was blowing. 4 mercy, compassion, mercifulness, clemency, leniency, forgiveness, favour, humanity, pity: The hostages expected no quarter from their captors. 5 quarters. living quarters, lodging(s), dwelling-place, dwelling, accommodation(s), rooms, chambers, residence, shelter, habitation, domicile, home, house, abode; Military billet, barracks, cantonment, casern or caserne: We found comfortable quarters in which we remained during our stay in the area. --v. 6 lodge, accommodate, house, board, shelter, put up; Military billet, post, station: The tour guide stayed at the best hotel, while we were quartered in a youth hostel.
quash v. 1 annul, nullify, void, declare or render null and void, invalidate, revoke, vacate, set aside, rescind, cancel, reject, throw out, reverse, overthrow, discharge, overrule: When the real culprit confessed, my conviction was quashed and I was set free. 2 suppress, subdue, quell, put down, squelch, repress, overthrow, crush, overwhelm: The rebellion was quashed by the secret police.
quaver v. 1 tremble, quiver, shake, shiver, vibrate, waver, shudder, fluctuate, oscillate, flutter: His voice quavered with emotion as he described his rescue. --n. 2 trembling, tremble, quiver, quivering, tremor, shaking, vibration, wavering, break, fluctuation, oscillation: Only a slight quaver in her voice betrayed her feeling of panic.
queen n. 1 sovereign, monarch, ruler; empress; queen consort; queen mother; queen dowager: She was absolutely thrilled when she was invited to a garden party at Buckingham Palace and met the Queen. 2 beauty queen, movie queen, star, prima donna, diva; epitome, model, idol, leading light, cynosure, leader: At the height of her career, she was known as 'the Queen of the Silver Screen'. 'Queen of the Antilles' was once a nickname of Cuba.
quell v. 1 suppress, put down, repress, subdue, quash, overcome, crush, squelch: The army arrived to quell the uprising at the prison. 2 moderate, mollify, soothe, assuage, alleviate, mitigate, allay, quiet, calm; pacify, tranquillize, compose: Any feelings of bitterness were quelled by her comforting words.
querulous adj. complaining, carping, critical, criticizing, hypercritical, fault-finding, finicky, finical, fussy, over-particular, censorious, petulant, whining, murmuring, grumbling, peevish, testy, touchy, irritable, irritated, annoyed, piqued, in a pique, irascible, fractious, perverse, quarrelsome, ill-natured, ill-humoured, cantankerous, curmudgeonly, crusty, crotchety, fretful, bad-tempered, ill-tempered, waspish, crabby, cross, splenetic, choleric, sour, dyspeptic, grumpy, Colloq grousing, pernickety or US also persnickety, Slang bitching: He objected to almost all the television programmes and sent querulous letters to the broadcasters telling them so.
quest n. 1 search, pursuit, exploration, expedition, voyage (of discovery), pilgrimage, mission, crusade; chase, hunt: When a child, he was inspired by the legend of Sir Launcelot's quest for the Holy Grail. --v. 2 Usually, quest after or for. seek (after or for), search after or for, hunt (for), track down, pursue, stalk: In 1928, joined by his father, he quested for gold along the Orinoco river.
questionable adj. doubtful, dubious, debatable, moot, disputable, borderline, suspect, suspicious, shady; open to question, in question, in dispute, problematic(al), uncertain, arguable, unsure, unreliable, ambiguous: The evidence shows that the defendant engaged in questionable banking practices while a director of Offshore Ltd. The advantages of quick divorce are questionable.
quibble v. 1 equivocate, split hairs, evade, be evasive, palter, chop logic, bandy words, cavil, pettifog, Colloq nit-pick: While people continued to be kept in slavery, the politicians quibbled over the difference between 'liberty' and 'freedom'. --n. 2 quibbling, equivocation, hair-splitting, splitting hairs, evasion, paltering, sophistry, Colloq nit-picking: Lawyers often become involved in a quibble over the mot juste and forget their clients. 3 cavil, sophism, subtlety, nicety: It's a quibble whether you say 'either' and 'neither' to rhyme with 'peek' or 'pike'.
quicken v. 1 accelerate, hasten, speed up: As we neared the house, our pace quickened. 2 expedite, hurry, accelerate, hasten, speed (up): We did everything we could to quicken her departure. 3 stimulate, arouse, kindle, spark, invigorate, excite, animate, vitalize, vivify, galvanize, enliven, awaken, energize, revive, resuscitate, reinvigorate: Olivia's inspiring lectures quickened the imagination of everyone who heard them.
quick-tempered adj. excitable, impulsive, temperamental, hot-tempered, waspish, choleric, splenetic, impatient, short-tempered, touchy, irascible, irritable, snappish, abrupt, short, short-spoken, quarrelsome, testy, volatile, hot-blooded, bad-tempered, ill-tempered, churlish, highly-strung, US high-keyed: Len is very quick-tempered these days and flies into a rage at the slightest provocation.
quiet adj. 1 silent, soundless, noiseless, hushed, still: We have to be very quiet so as not to wake the children. 2 still, serene, silent, peaceful, unperturbed, calm, tranquil, placid, pacific, smooth, mild, restful, unagitated: The sea was very quiet as we rowed towards the beach. 3 dormant, quiescent, inactive, retired, withdrawn, unobtrusive: His last days were spent living a quiet life in the Outer Hebrides. 4 still, motionless, unmoving, fixed, stationary, at rest, inactive, composed, temperate, unexcited, calm: There was a knock at the door and everyone suddenly became quiet. --n. 5 silence, stillness, soundlessness, noiselessness, hush, quietness, quietude, ease, rest, calmness, serenity, tranquillity, peace, peace of mind, repose: In the quiet of the cave I could hear my heart beating. --v. 6 See quieten, below.
quietly adv. 1 silently, soundlessly, noiselessly, inaudibly, in silence, softly: She tiptoed quietly out of the room. 2 in hushed tones, in whispers: In a corner of the room a young couple were quietly conversing. 3 peacefully, calmly, serenely, peaceably, meekly, mildly: When the police explained they only wanted him to help in their inquiries, he went with them quietly. 4 modestly, humbly, demurely, unpretentiously, unostentatiously, unobtrusively, unassumingly, sedately: The applicants sat quietly, waiting to be called in for the interview.
quip n. 1 (bon) mot, witticism, sally, jest, ad lib, joke, gibe, barb, aphorism, epigram, apophthegm or apothegm, pun, double entendre, equivoque or equivoke, Colloq gag, one-liner, crack, wisecrack, wheeze, chestnut: In his worst quip he attributed the breakdown of his computer to a slipped diskette. --v. 2 joke, jest, gibe, Colloq wisecrack, US crack wise: As Mae West quipped, 'It's not the men in my life that count; it's the life in my men'.
quit v. 1 leave, depart from, go (away) from, get away from, decamp, exit, desert, flee, forsake, abandon, Colloq take off, beat it, skip: They think that he will try to quit the country if he is released on bail. 2 resign, give up, relinquish, leave, renounce, retire from, withdraw from: Would you really quit your job to sail around the world? 3 cease, stop, discontinue, leave off, desist from: They would always quit laughing when I walked into the room. --adj. 4 free, clear, discharged, rid of, released (from), exempt (from): When my ex-wife remarried I was quit of the burden of paying alimony.
quiver v. 1 shake, tremble, vibrate, shiver, quaver; shudder, tremor, oscillate, fluctuate, wobble: He felt his lips quivering as he told her that he was dying. The outcome of the contest quivered in the balance. --n. 2 tremble, quaver, shudder, spasm, shake, tremor, shiver: Pierced by the dart, the tiny bird fell to the earth, gave a little quiver, and lay still.
quiz n. 1 examination, test, Colloq exam: We have a ten-minute quiz every week on our reading assignment. --v. 2 question, interrogate, ask, examine, Colloq grill, pump: The police have quizzed everyone in the neighbourhood about what they might have seen.
quota n. apportionment, portion, allotment, allocation, allowance, ration, share, part, proportion, percentage, equity, interest, Colloq cut: Each shareholder is allowed a quota of the new shares based on the number now held.
quote v. 1 cite, mention, recite, repeat, retell, reproduce, duplicate, call up, bring up, bring in, instance, exemplify, refer to, reference, extract, excerpt: Let me quote to you the relevant passage from Paradise Lost . --n. 2 See quotation, above.
rabble-rouser n. agitator, demagogue, instigator, inciter, firebrand, incendiary, radical, troublemaker, agent provocateur, revolutionary, insurrectionist, Colloq hell-raiser: The crowd was whipped into a frenzy by a rabble-rouser who was not identified.
race n. 1 foot-race, horse-race, marathon, rally or rallye; competition, contest, rivalry, contention: How many will be running in Saturday's race? Several countries had joined the race to complete a workable anti-gravity device. 2 sluice, flume, chute, watercourse, course, channel, bed, mill-race, raceway, spillway; track: The water in the race enabled us to wash the sand in order to extract the gold. The ball-bearings don't fall out because they are retained in the race. 3 the races. horse-races, dog-races, the dogs, the track, the turf, Brit racecourse, race meeting, US racetrack: We're off to the races at Newmarket. --v. 4 speed, hurry, hasten, dash, sprint, fly, rush, scramble, step lively, Colloq tear, rip, zip, step on the gas, step on it, hop to it, get a move on, Brit hare, US get a wiggle on: You're going to have to race to catch the last bus. 5 compete (with): I'll race you to the gate and back.
racial adj. ethnic, genetic, genealogical, ethnological, folk; tribal; national: Bigots emphasize racial differences rather than racial similarities.
racket n. 1 noise, din, uproar, disturbance, clamour, hubbub, row, rumpus, hullabaloo, fuss, ado, commotion, to-do, hue and cry, outcry, brouhaha, tumult, babel, pandemonium, Elizabethan theatre alarums and excursions, Colloq ballyhoo: How can you sleep through the racket from your neighbour's all-night parties? 2 (organized) crime, criminal or illegal activity or enterprise, trickery, trick, dodge, scheme, swindle, stratagem, artifice, game, ruse, Slang caper, scam, gyp: Their racket is selling 'protection' to shop-owners. 3 business, line, profession, occupation, trade, vocation, calling, job, employment, livelihood: I'm in commodities; what's your racket?
raconteur n. storyteller, anecdotalist or anecdotist, narrator, relater or relator, Colloq spinner of yarns: The after-dinner speaker was a marvellous raconteur with a wealth of stories about the theatre.
radiance n. 1 radiancy, splendour, brightness, brilliance, resplendence, luminosity, luminousness, dazzle, sparkle, coruscation, scintillation, twinkle, effulgence, refulgence, incandescence, glow, phosphorescence, gleam, lustre, shimmer, shine: As Aladdin rubbed the ring, it began to glow with an inner radiance and then - suddenly - a genie appeared. 2 warmth, gladness, joy, pleasure, happiness, cheeriness, delight: It was good to see again the radiance of the family at Christmas dinner.
radiate v. 1 shine, beam, burn, blaze, gleam, glow, shimmer, glisten, sparkle, dazzle, glitter, coruscate, scintillate, twinkle: The jewel seemed to radiate with an inner light. 2 emanate, disseminate, disperse, spread, diffuse, shed, send out, emit, give off or out, Rare irradiate: He radiated goodwill the way a fire radiates heat and light.
radical adj. 1 basic, fundamental, elementary, inherent, constitutional, elemental, essential, cardinal, principal, primary, deep, deep-seated, profound, underlying, organic, natural, rudimentary: There is a radical error in your approach to the problem. There are radical differences in the ways we regard the English language. 2 thorough, thoroughgoing, complete, entire, total, exhaustive, sweeping, (all-)inclusive, comprehensive, all-embracing, out-and-out, drastic, severe, extreme, extremist, revolutionary: We have made radical changes in the way we live. Every political party that is not in power promises radical reform. 3 extremist, revolutionary, fanatic(al), militant, anarchist(ic), immoderate: A staunch conservative, Vincent regarded as radical anyone who disagreed with him. --n. 4 extremist, revolutionary, fanatic, zealot, immoderate, anarchist, militant: The radicals favour reform, the conservatives the status quo - but there is nothing new in that. 5 communist, leftist, left-winger, red, Bolshevik, Bolshevist, pink, Slang US pinko: Carlo, recently arrested as a spy, had been a radical since his days at university.
raffle n. lottery, draw, sweepstake or US sweepstakes, sweep or US sweeps: The church is holding a raffle for a new car next week.
rag v. tease, taunt, belittle, twit, ridicule, mock, make fun of, pull (someone's) leg, Brit rally, Colloq kid: The boys at school were always ragging him about his lisp.
rage n. 1 anger, fury, wrath, ire, high dudgeon, exasperation, vehemence, passion: Imagine her rage when Simon phoned to say that he couldn't make it home for dinner! 2 fury, passion, frenzy, hysterics, tantrum, fit, temper, Brit paddy or paddywhack or paddywack, Colloq Brit wax: He flies into a rage if Grace is as little as five minutes late for an appointment. 3 fashion, craze, vogue, the (latest or newest) thing, last word, dernier cri, mode, Colloq fad: Miniskirts were all the rage in the 1960s. --v. 4 rant, rave, storm, go mad or crazy or bonkers or wild or out of one's mind, go berserk, run amok or amuck, behave or act or be like one possessed, fret, be beside oneself (with anger or fury), lose one's temper, go berserk, have a tantrum, fulminate, explode; fume, foam at the mouth, stew, smoulder, boil, seethe, simmer, Colloq have kittens, lose one's cool, fly off the handle, go off the deep end, Slang get into or work oneself up into a lather or stew or sweat, get all worked up, blow one's top, blow a gasket, blow up, flip one's top or lid, hit the ceiling or roof, freak out, be fit to be tied, be ready for a strait-jacket, Brit throw a wobbly, US and Canadian blow one's stack, flip one's wig, blow a fuse, have a haemorrhage, go ape, do a slow burn, have a conniption fit: Father raged for hours when he found that Donald had borrowed the car without permission.
ragman n. rag-dealer, rag-picker, scrap dealer, Brit rag-and-bone man, knacker, US junk dealer, junkman: When the ragman comes round, give him those old curtains.
rail n. 1 bar, rod, handrail, foot-rail , towel-rail; railing, banisters, balustrade, baluster, fence: Don't lean on the rail or it will break. 2 by or via rail. by train, by railway or US also railroad: We travelled by rail from Paris to Geneva.
raillery n. banter, badinage, persiflage, repartee, frivolity, joking, jesting, chaffing, teasing, ridicule, Colloq kidding: You shouldn't get upset over what was nothing more than some good-natured raillery.
railway n. train, rail, rolling-stock, Archaic iron horse, US railroad: Railway service could be improved on some suburban lines. Diamond Jim Brady, the American millionaire, made his money from the railway.
raise v. 1 lift (up), elevate; hoist, pull up, haul up, run up, Literary upraise: She raised the glass to her lips. We raised the mainsail and sailed out of the harbour. 2 erect, put up, construct, build, produce, create, put together, assemble, frame: With the help of some neighbours, the barn was raised in less than a day. 3 farm, grow, cultivate, plant, bring up, nurture, harvest, propagate: During that year's mild winter, we were able to raise three crops. 4 bring up, nurture, rear; mother, father, parent: His grandmother raised ten children, six girls and four boys. 5 assemble, gather, bring or gather or get together, muster, mobilize, round up, rally, collect, convene, recruit, Colloq pull together: Do you think you could raise an army quickly enough to defend us against attack? 6 increase, boost, advance, put up, jack up, run up, inflate, escalate: Why are consumer petrol prices always raised at the vaguest hint of an increase in oil prices? 7 cultivate, foster, nurture, heighten, stimulate, buoy, lift, uplift, boost, arouse, quicken, encourage, develop: The news about the new company raised our hopes of finding jobs. 8 open, introduce, initiate, broach, bring up, bring or put forward, present, suggest, mention, moot: It is regrettable that you saw fit to raise such a delicate issue. 9 remove, relieve, lift, abandon, eliminate, discontinue, (bring to an) end, terminate: Restrictions on travel to south-east Asia were about to be raised. 10 cause, provoke, evoke, occasion, put or set in motion, institute, prompt, engender, stir up, instigate, inspire, give rise to, bring about, arouse, originate: Objections to the relaxation of safety regulations were raised by relatives of the victims of the earlier disaster. 11 utter, express, bring up, put forward, shout, call: Was it you who raised the alarm at the first sign of smoke? 12 assemble, obtain, get, collect, amass, solicit: We raised twice as much for charity as last year. 13 invigorate, animate, vitalize, vivify, buoy, lift, uplift, cheer (up), exhilarate, elate: Our spirits were raised considerably by the news from head office.
rake n. libertine, womanizer, lecher, rou, playboy, ladies' man, Don Juan, Casanova, Lothario, debauchee, voluptuary, profligate, prodigal; scoundrel, rascal, cad, Archaic rakehell, masher; Colloq lady-killer, Colloq old-fashioned wolf, Brit bounder: Lady Anne was led stray by some young rake, a friend of the Prince Regent's.
rakish adj. dashing, jaunty, dapper, spruce, debonair, raffish, smart, breezy, flashy, chic, fashionable, elegant; dandy, foppish: Adjusting his trilby to a rakish angle, Peter strode along the boulevard.
ram v. 1 jam, force, drive, cram, crowd, pack, compress, stuff, squeeze, thrust, tamp, pound, hammer: We rammed as much filler as we could into the crevices. 2 butt, bump, strike, hit, collide with, dash, crash, slam: Their car rammed into mine in the garage.
rambling adj. 1 discursive, roundabout, circuitous, tortuous, incoherent, diffuse, unsettled, disconnected, disjointed, disorganized, unorganized, illogical, maundering, aimless, confused, muddled, jumbled, scrambled, unintelligible, inarticulate, periphrastic, circumlocutory, circumlocutional, circumlocutionary, ambagious, wordy, verbose, prolix, endless, interminable: We couldn't make heads or tails of the professor's rambling lecture. 2 unplanned, straggling, irregular, sprawling, spread out, spreading, straggly: The Wilsons live in that big old rambling Victorian house down the road. 3 roving, wandering, travelling, peripatetic, itinerant, wayfaring, migratory, nomadic: For five years he led a rambling life as a folk-singing banjo player.
ramp n. slope, grade, gradient, incline; rise, ascent, acclivity; descent, dip, declivity: There is a special ramp in the theatre for wheelchair access.
rampant adj. 1 unchecked, uninhibited, unrestrained, wild, uncontrolled, out of control, out of hand, frenzied, unbridled, uncontrollable, violent: He was a victim of rampant jealousy. Jennie could hardly be described as a rampant feminist. 2 profuse, unbounded, abounding, flourishing, rife, widespread, everywhere, epidemic, pandemic, prevalent, unrestrained, unchecked, running wild, uninhibited, indiscriminate, wild, uncontrolled; in control, holding sway, in full sway, dominant, predominant; exuberant, rank, luxuriant: Before Masterson became sheriff, vice and crime were rampant in the town.
ramshackle adj. dilapidated, tumbledown, crumbling, broken-down, rickety, unsteady, jerry-built, decrepit, flimsy, shaky, unstable, tottering, unsubstantial or insubstantial, ruined, in disrepair, beyond repair, run-down, neglected, derelict: He lives in a ramshackle hut on the outskirts of town.
rancorous adj. hateful, spiteful, resentful, hostile, malign, malignant, bitter, malevolent, malicious, venomous, vindictive, vengeful, splenetic, acrimonious: Olivia felt rancorous towards her brother-in-law when he refused to lend her money.
random adj. 1 haphazard, chance, fortuitous, serendipitous, aleatory, arbitrary, casual, stray, occasional, indefinite, indiscriminate, non-specific, unspecific, unspecified, unordered, unorganized, undirected, unpremeditated, unplanned, accidental, uncalculated, unsystematic, adventitious, incidental, hit-or-miss: He used a computer program to generate random numbers. A random selection of slips was drawn from the drum and Madelaine's name was on one of them. 2 at random. randomly, haphazardly, fortuitously, by chance, serendipitously, arbitrarily, casually, occasionally, (every) now and then, (every) once in a while, irregularly, indefinitely, erratically, indiscriminately, unsystematically, adventitiously, incidentally, unpremeditatedly: They picked names from a hat at random. They drove up and down the road, firing at random.
range n. 1 scope, sweep, reach, limit, extent, span, area, radius, distance, compass, latitude, stretch, sphere, orbit: The gun has a range of about 200 yards. This radio transmitter is effective only within a thirty-mile range. The minister is trying to broaden the range of his influence. 2 assortment, series, collection, lot, spread, selection, choice, number, variety, kind, sort, scale, gamut, register: The courses offered cater to a wide range of interests. 3 rank, row, tier, line, file, series, string, chain: From my window I could see the range of hills stretching away into the distance. 4 kitchen range, (cooking-) stove, Chiefly Brit cooker, Brit trade mark Aga, US cook-stove: In every French farmhouse there was always a pot of soup on the range. --v. 5 line up, rank, order, align, order, array: The teacher ranged the children according to their height. 6 vary, fluctuate, spread, run the gamut, extend, stretch, run, go: The students range in age from eight to eighty. 7 organize, categorize, catalogue, arrange, classify, sort, class, group, rank, bracket, pigeon-hole, file, index, break down, grade, distribute: The books are ranged according to their subject-matter. 8 cover, traverse, roam, rove, travel over or across, go or pass over, drift, migrate, wander, move, extend: The wildebeest ranges far and wide over vast tracts of grazing land in Africa.
rank adj. 1 lush, luxuriant, abundant, flourishing, profuse, prolific, dense, superabundant, exuberant, fertile, productive, fructuous: The expedition could hardly make its way through the rank undergrowth of th jungle. 2 corrupt, foul, low, base, gross; downright, utter, sheer, absolute, complete, out-and-out, blatant, flagrant, unalloyed, unmitigated, undiluted: I cannot understand the rank treachery of the man after all that we have done for him. I ventured my opinion, even though a rank outsider. 3 offensive, loathsome, disgusting, gross, foul, corrupt, indecent, shocking, immodest, indecorous, shameless, risqu, lurid, off colour, outrageous, blue, nasty, vulgar, vile, dirty, filthy, smutty, scatological, pornographic, obscene: Those bigots always resort to the rank vocabulary of malice and hate. In a secret cupboard was a collection of the rankest literature. 4 offensive, loathsome, disgusting, gross, foul, foul-smelling, smelly, rancid, noisome, stinking, reeky, reeking, mephitic, miasmic or miasmal or miasmatic(al), fetid or foetid, noxious, rotten, putrid, musty, stale, disagreeable, strong, pungent: The rank stench from the open sewers pervades the air in those pockets of poverty.
rankle v. gall, fester, irk, vex, plague, chafe, grate, nettle, torment, pain, hurt, provoke, anger, exasperate, get (to), upset: Although she had forgiven him, the insult still rankled.
ransom n. 1 redemption, rescue, deliverance; release, liberation: The envoy was held to ransom by a fanatical band of zealots. 2 payment, payout, pay-off, price: The police refuse to reveal the amount of the ransom given to the kidnappers. --v. 3 redeem, rescue, release, deliver: The boy was ransomed for 10,000.
rap v. 1 knock, strike, tap, hit: The policeman rapped smartly at the door with his truncheon. 2 criticize, rebuke, scold, reprimand, rap over the knuckles, Colloq knock, Brit tick off: We were severely rapped for dropping litter on the pavement. 3 converse, talk, chat, gossip, Colloq gab, Slang chew the fat or the rag: That guy was so fascinating - we could rap with him for hours. --n. 4 knock, tap, hit, blow, crack, stroke, cuff, whack, thwack, punch, Colloq belt, clout, Slang sock, slug, biff: The punishment for failing to complete the assignment was a severe rap on the knuckles. 5 conversation, discussion, chat, confabulation, talk, dialogue, discourse, colloquy, Colloq confab, Slang chiefly US and Canadian bull session, rap session: We used to get together for a nice long rap now and then. 6 responsibility, blame; punishment, sentence; charge, accusation, indictment: Why should he have to take the rap for something you did? The witness failed to show up, so Baxter beat the rap.
rapacity n. greed, greediness, cupidity, covetousness, avarice, acquisitiveness, predaciousness, ravenousness, voracity, voraciousness, insatiability, insatiableness, rapaciousness: The rapacity of the invading hordes of Mongols knew no bounds.
rapid adj. quick, fast, swift, speedy, high-speed, brisk, expeditious, prompt, express, fleet, lightning(-fast), alacritous; hurried, hasty, precipitate, impetuous, immediate, instantaneous, instant, sudden: The company we use offers rapid delivery service. What do you suppose occasioned Flannery's rapid departure?
rapidly adv. 1 quickly, fast, swiftly, speedily, briskly, expeditiously, like a shot, at the speed of light, double-quick, at full speed, like one possessed, at a gallop, tantivy, Colloq like blazes, like (greased) lightning, US lickety-split, Slang like a bat out of hell, like mad: He cycled down the High Street as rapidly as he could go. 2 promptly, instantly, instantaneously, instanter, without delay, at once, straight away, right away, in a moment, in a trice, like a shot, in a wink, in (less than) no time, double-quick, in a flash, at the speed of light, before you (can) turn around, Colloq in a jiffy, in two shakes (of a lamb's tail), like (greased) lightning, before you can say 'Jack Robinson', US and Canadian (right) off the bat, lickety-split, Slang like a bat out of hell: When I mentioned that you were coming, she left rapidly.
rapprochement n. reconciliation, understanding, settlement: The party needs to bring about a rapprochement between the radicals and the reactionaries.
rapture n. ecstasy, delight, joy, joyfulness, joyousness, pleasure, exaltation, elation, thrill, enchantment, euphoria, beatitude, transport, enchantment: Nothing could compare with the rapture he felt at seeing his daughter win the Nobel prize.
rare adj. 1 uncommon, unfamiliar, unusual, exceptional, out of the ordinary, extraordinary, atypical; scarce, unparalleled, choice, recherch, phenomenal, infrequent, few and far between, sparse, scanty, limited, seldom encountered or met with or seen; unique, singular, one of a kind; Chiefly Brit thin on the ground: It was rare to see Liz in such good humour. Specimens in such perfect condition are rare. A copy of the first edition in this condition is rare. 2 fine, good, admirable, excellent, choice, select, special, first-rate, first-class, exquisite, superior, superlative, peerless, unequalled, matchless, incomparable, in a class by itself or herself or himself or themselves, sui generis, outstanding; collectible or collectable: O, rare Ben Jonson! On exhibit was a black pearl of rare beauty and remarkable size. Consideration for others seems a rare quality these days.
rarefied adj. 1 thin, lean, attenuated, diluted, sparse, scant, scanty: As we climbed higher, the rarefied atmosphere made breathing more difficult. 2 exalted, lofty, elevated, high, sublime, noble, high: I feel out of place in the rarefied atmosphere of academia. 3 cliquish, clannish, exclusive, private, select, esoteric: Clarence copes well in the rarefied atmosphere of Whitehall's corridors of power.
rarity n. 1 curiosity, oddity, curio, collector's item, find, treasure, conversation piece, Brit one-off, Colloq Brit oner: Among the rarities in his collection is a stuffed dodo. 2 unusualness, uncommonness, rareness, uniqueness, scarcity: The rarity of the first edition makes this book all the more valuable.
rash adj. impetuous, impulsive, unthinking, thoughtless, foolhardy, unconsidered, ill-considered, ill-advised, injudicious, imprudent, indiscreet, precipitate, hasty, careless, heedless, reckless, headlong, wild, madcap, hare-brained, hotheaded, adventurous, quixotic, venturesome, audacious, bold, dashing, brash, devil-may-care: It was rash of him to try to sail round the world single-handed, but he did it.
rasp n. 1 grating, scrape, scraping, scratch, scratching, grinding, stridulation: One could hear the rasp of the file as they tried to cut through the door. 2 file, grater: The coarser rasp is for use on wood. --v. 3 scrape, abrade, grate, file: First, rasp the horseradish, then combine the gratings with a little vinegar. 4 irritate, jar (upon), grate upon or against, rub (someone) (up) the wrong way, nettle, irk, annoy, vex, wear on, get, Literary gride: She has a rasping metallic voice that gets on my nerves. 5 croak, squawk, screech: The sergeant rasped out another command and the company marched forward.
rate v. scold, berate, reprimand, rebuke, reproach, reprove, take to task, upbraid, censure, Colloq bawl out, dress down, US and Canadian chew out: I was rated severely for staying out after midnight.
ratify v. approve, sanction, endorse, support, corroborate, uphold, back (up), sustain, establish, validate, substantiate, verify, authenticate, guarantee, warrant, certify, affirm, ensure, clinch, settle: The pact was ratified by all members.
ration n. 1 share, quota, allotment, portion, helping, part, provision, measure, dole, percentage, amount: Each person is permitted a weekly fixed ration of butter, sugar, coffee, meat, etc. We shall have to go on short rations till we are rescued. 2 rations. supplies, provisions, food, provender, victuals, viands, eatables, edibles, comestibles, Brit commons: It was not till the third week with our rations running low that we really began to worry. --v. 3 Often, ration out. allot, apportion, dole (out), give out, distribute, deal out, mete out, parcel out, measure out, hand out: As water was in short supply, we had to ration it. One cup was rationed out to each of us every morning. 4 budget, schedule, restrict, control, limit: Water had to be rationed to one cup a day for each of us.
rationale n. reason, explanation, logical basis, grounds, logic, reasoning, philosophy, principle, theory: Do you understand the rationale of a policy for curbing inflation that sets interest rates at a level where business, initiative, and productivity are stifled?
rattle v. 1 clatter: An acorn dropped from an overhanging tree and rattled down the tin roof. 2 shake, vibrate, jar, joggle, jiggle: The wind was strong enough to rattle the windows in their frames. 3 unnerve, disconcert, discomfit, disturb, perturb, shake, discountenance, upset, agitate, put off, Chiefly US and Canadian faze: They are only trying to rattle us by saying that we might lose our jobs if we strike. 4 jounce, bounce, bump, jolt, speed, hurtle: The stagecoach came rattling down the road, swaying wildly. 5 rattle off. recite, list, utter, reel off, run through, enumerate, call off: The announcer rattled off a long list of trains cancelled because of the storm. 6 rattle on. chatter, babble, jabber, gibber, prate, prattle, blabber, cackle, blather, ramble, Chiefly Brit witter, natter, Slang US run off at the mouth: The speaker kept rattling on and on about the delights of collecting beer cans. --n. 7 clatter, racket, noise; rale or rle, crackle, crackling; death-rattle: I heard the rattle of the beans and knew you were about to grind the coffee. The doctor said he didn't like the rattle in my chest. 8 clapper, sistrum, US noise-maker: Rattles have been used as musical instruments for thousands of years.
ratty adj. 1 irritable, cross, testy, touchy, annoyed, crabbed, irritated, angry, short-tempered, impatient, disagreeable: He's always ratty in the mornings when he has a hangover. 2 dirty, greasy, straggly, unkempt, matted: His hair was all ratty and he hadn't bathed in a month.
ravage v. 1 lay waste, devastate, ruin, destroy, demolish, raze, wreck, wreak havoc (up)on, damage: The hurricane ravaged outlying areas but did little damage in the city. 2 pillage, plunder, despoil, ransack, sack, loot: The police tried to prevent hooligans from ravaging the shops in the town centre. --n. 3 Usually, ravages. destruction, damage, depredation(s), devastation, wrecking, ruin, demolition: All about us we saw the ravages of war.
ravenous adj. 1 hungry, famished, starving, starved: We were ravenous after the long hike. 2 voracious, gluttonous, greedy, insatiable, ravening, swinish, piggish, hoggish, edacious, wolfish: With my family's ravenous appetites, there are rarely any leftovers.
raving adj. 1 mad, insane, berserk, raging, crazy, crazed, irrational, manic, maniacal, frantic, frenzied, delirious, hysterical; out of one's mind or head: He stood there shouting and screaming, like a raving lunatic. 2 extraordinary, outstanding, unusual, rare, uncommon, phenomenal, great, striking, ravishing, Colloq stunning: Diana had been a raving beauty in her time. --n. 3 Often, ravings. rant, ranting, bombast, pomposity, grandiloquence, magniloquence, rodomontade, rhetoric, bluster, blustering, claptrap, balderdash, puffery, bunkum, flatulence, hyperbole, vapouring, fustian, Colloq hot air, bunk: Why must we be subjected to the ravings of this politician? 4 gabble, babble, babbling, gibberish, Colloq gab: This is nothing more than the raving of a maniac.
ravishing adj. dazzling, beautiful, gorgeous, striking, radiant, charming, alluring, attractive, entrancing, captivating, enthralling, bewitching, spellbinding, Colloq stunning: Daphne was even more ravishing than her sister Diana.
raw-boned adj. gaunt, lean, gangling, thin, skinny, spare, meagre, scrawny, underfed, bony, emaciated, half-starved, wasted, hollow-cheeked, cadaverous: They'll take that raw-boned youngster into the army and put some meat on him.
raze v. tear or pull or bring or knock or throw down, demolish, destroy, level, flatten, bulldoze: As usual, beautiful old buildings were razed to make way for a new shopping centre. reach v. 1 Often, reach out. hold out, extend, stretch (out), stick out, thrust out, outstretch, outreach: He reached out his hand and graped mine warmly. 2 arrive at, get to, come to, go to, end up at or in; land at or in, Colloq make (it to): I won't reach the office till noon today. Have we reached the point of no return? 3 get, get in touch with, communicate with, establish or make contact with, get through to, get (a) hold of: I tried to reach her at home, but she was out. 4 attain, achieve, accomplish, make, get or go to, get or go as far as: Do you think that McClintock will reach the semi-finals? 5 come or go or get up to, amount to, attain, climb to, rise to, run to, equal, match: It looks as though the trade deficit might reach last year's figure. 6 get through or across to, register with, communicate with, reach into the mind of, impress, influence, sway, move, stir, carry weight with: It is very difficult for teachers to reach teenagers, who have a natural suspicion of adults. --n. 7 range, ambit, scope, orbit, compass, sphere, territory: Those outlying areas are beyond our reach. Padua is within easy reach of Venice. 8 capability, capacity: Tragedy often occurs when one's ambition exceeds one's reach.
reaction n. 1 response, reply, answer, effect, feedback: Did you get any reaction when you told her I had been arrested? Her reaction was to turn over and go back to sleep. 2 repulsion, resistance, counteraction, counterbalance, compensation: A rocket derives forward thrust by reaction against its own exhaust, hence can operate in a vacuum. 3 retaliation, reciprocation, reprisal, revenge: He shot her in reaction to her announcement that she was leaving him.
read v. 1 peruse, scan, skim, review, study, look over, pore over: I have read the article twice but still cannot understand it. 2 understand, know, be familiar with, comprehend, interpret, decipher: Can you read Greek? Madame Sonja reads tea leaves. 3 announce, present, deliver: Anna reads the news on TV at six o'clock every evening. 4 read into. assign to, impute (to), infer (from), assume (from), presume (from), conclude (from): You might be reading too much into that letter of commendation.
readily adv. 1 cheerfully, willingly, eagerly, ungrudgingly, unhesitatingly, freely, gladly, happily, agreeably, graciously, charitably: He always gave readily of his time to anyone who sought his help, and we shall miss him sorely. 2 effortlessly, easily, smoothly, without difficulty: I was able to get the wheel off readily enough, getting it back on was the problem. 3 promptly, quickly, speedily, swiftly, apace, at once, without delay, in no time, immediately, instantly, instantaneously, instanter, straight away, right away, at or on short notice, Colloq pronto: The police came readily but were unable to catch the thieves, who had already escaped.
ready adj. 1 prepared, (all) set, in readiness, in (proper) shape; up, primed, ripe, fit, in condition; Colloq psyched (up): The charge is ready for detonation. I'm ready for a good run in the park. Are these apples ready for eating? Are you ready to meet the girl of your dreams? 2 agreeable, consenting, acquiescent, willing, content, eager, keen, happy, cheerful, genial, gracious, cordial, friendly, well-disposed, enthusiastic, Colloq game: Tim was always a ready accomplice to any mischief devised by his brother. 3 apt, likely, inclined, disposed, given, prone: She was all too ready to believe anything she was told. 4 about, liable, likely, apt; on the verge of, subject to, in danger of, on the brink of, on the point of, close to: The volcano seemed ready to erupt at any moment. 5 prompt, rapid, quick, immediate, speedy, swift, punctual, timely: Alistair seems to have a ready answer for everything. 6 clever, keen, sharp, agile, deft, skilful, adroit, alert, bright, intelligent, perceptive, quick: It was Carlotta's ready wit that first attracted me. 7 on or at or to hand, handy, available, accessible, at (one's) fingertips, at the ready, close at hand, convenient: I don't have the ready cash for a new car at the moment. --n. 8 readies. money, cash, wherewithal: If you have the readies, please pay me what you owe me. 9 at the ready. a waiting, on tap, expectant, in position, poised: Keep your pistol at the ready in case there's trouble. b See 8, above. --v. 10 prepare, make or get ready, set, fit out, equip, organize, psych up: He readied himself as best he could for the ordeal.
real adj. 1 genuine, true, actual, authentic, verified, verifiable, legitimate, right, bona fide, official; legal, legitimate, licit, natural, valid, veritable: He says that his name is Smith, but what is his real name? Her diamonds are not real. It has been proved beyond the shadow of a doubt that he is the real father. 2 genuine, actual, true, existent, authentic, natural; material, physical, tangible, palpable, corporeal: How can one distinguish between the real object and what one sees, which is merely its image? 3 genuine, sincere, heartfelt, true, actual, unfeigned, unaffected, earnest, honest, truthful, legitimate, valid: Deirdre's face is so impassive that it is impossible to tell what her real feelings are. What's the real reason that you're here? 4 genuine, actual, true, loyal, trustworthy, trusted, honest: You are a real friend, and I know I can count on you. 5 intrinsic, actual, true, genuine, proper, essential: The 150 million sale of the company fell significantly below its real value. --adv. 6 See really, below.
reality n. 1 actuality, fact, truth, genuineness, authenticity, Aristotelianism entelechy: It is important to deal with the reality not the potentiality of the situation. 2 in reality. See really, below.
realize v. 1 make real, effect, bring about, make happen, make a reality, actualize, accomplish, produce, achieve, fulfil, materialize, effectuate: Many of Leonardo da Vinci's inventions were not realized in his lifetime. 2 understand, appreciate, comprehend, be aware of, conceive of, grasp, perceive, discern, be or become conscious or aware or appreciative of, recognize, see, Colloq catch on (to), cotton (on) to, Brit twig: Did Clare fully realize the consequences of her actions? 3 return, gain, clear, profit, make, earn, bring or take in, net, produce, get: We have realized a substantial profit on the sale of the shares bought when the company was privatized.
realm n. 1 domain, kingdom, empire, monarchy, principality, palatinate, duchy or dukedom: They searched the realm for a girl whose foot would fit into the glass slipper. 2 territory, area, bailiwick, department, responsibility, jurisdiction: Collecting taxes is not within the realm of our office. 3 area, confines, sphere, limits: Cooperation with foreign companies is certainly well within the realms of possibility.
reap v. 1 harvest, garner, glean, gather (in), mow, take in or up: The land was fertile, and a bountiful crop was reaped. As ye sow, so shall ye reap. 2 profit, bring in, gain, procure, acquire, get, obtain, take in: It is impossible to reap much when there is so small a margin between cost and selling price.
rear v. 1 raise, bring up, care for, nurture, nurse; cultivate, educate, train; breed, produce: They reared six children in that tiny house. Is this where they rear Aberdeen Angus cattle? 2 erect, raise, build, put up, construct, fabricate, create: The family reared an elaborate mausoleum in memory of Lord Percy. 3 raise, lift, put up, upraise, uplift, hold up: He said that litism was rearing its ugly head again, and that equality of opportunity was proving a myth.
reasonable adj. 1 sensible, rational, sane, logical, sober, sound, judicious, wise, intelligent, thinking: I had always thought Philip a reasonable man. 2 credible, believable, plausible, tenable, reasoned, arguable, well-thought-out, well-grounded: Her story about having found the child wandering in the street doesn't sound very reasonable to me. 3 moderate, tolerable, acceptable, within reason, equitable, fair; inexpensive, unexcessive, unextravagant, economical, conservative: Considering inflation, we thought the price increases were reasonable. 4 appropriate, suitable, proper, sensible, right: The car was travelling at a reasonable speed, considering conditions.
reassure v. comfort, encourage, hearten, buoy (up), bolster, cheer, uplift, inspirit, brace, support, restore confidence to, set or put (someone's) mind at rest, set or put (someone) at ease, settle (someone's) doubts: The minister reassured the public regarding the safety of public transport.
rebel v. 1 revolt, mutiny, rise up: The people will rebel if subjected to more oppression. 2 Often, rebel against. defy, flout, dare, challenge; disobey, dissent: It is in the nature of young people to rebel against authority and the status quo. --n. 3 revolutionary, revolutionist, insurgent, insurrrectionist, mutineer, resister, resistance fighter, freedom fighter: We call ourselves fighters for justice, but the unjust call us rebels and traitors. 4 heretic, nonconformist, apostate, dissenter, recusant, schismatic: James's problem was that he was a rebel without a cause.
rebellious adj. 1 insubordinate, defiant, mutinous, revolutionary, contumacious, insurgent, insurrectionary, seditious: The more rebellious students organized mass meetings against the university authorities. 2 unmanageable, disobedient, incorrigible, ungovernable, unruly, difficult, refractory, stubborn, obstinate, recalcitrant: They resented being treated as rebellious children.
rebound v. 1 spring back, bounce, recoil, ricochet, resile: The ball rebounded from the goalpost. --n. 2 bounce, recoil, ricochet, return, comeback, repercussion, backlash, reflex: Carter caught the ball on the rebound.
rebuke v. 1 scold, reproach, admonish, reprove, reprimand, lecture, censure, chide, reprehend, berate, castigate, criticize, take to task, upbraid, revile, Colloq dress down, bawl out, give (someone) a piece of one's mind, haul (someone) over the coals, let (someone) have it, give (someone) hell or what for, tell (someone) off, tell (someone) where to get off, Brit carpet, tear (someone) off a strip, tick (someone) off, wig, blow (someone) up, give (someone) a wigging, US and Canadian rake (someone) over the coals, give (someone) the business, chew out: The headmaster severely rebuked those boys who had violated the school curfew. --n. 2 scolding, reproach, admonition, reproof, reprimand, lecture, censure, chiding, reprehension, berating, castigation, criticism, upbraiding, revilement, tongue-lashing, Colloq dressing-down, what for, Brit wigging, blow-up or blowing up, Slang hell: Rawlings was let off with nothing more than a rebuke.
rebuttal n. answer, reply, retort, response, rejoinder, counter-argument, riposte, retaliation, denial, refutation, contradiction, confutation, Colloq comeback: In rebuttal, the defence tried to prove that the witness for the prosecution had been bribed.
recall v. 1 remember, recollect, think back to, reminisce over or about, call to mind: I like to recall the happy days we had at Biarritz. 2 withdraw, retract, call back, summon: The legions guarding the frontier provinces were recalled to Rome. 3 rescind, cancel, annul, nullify, retract, withdraw, revoke, recant, take back, call back; disavow, disown, deny: Despite the fact that you might have been hasty, you cannot recall your promise. --n. 4 memory, recollection, remembering, remembrance: He had a loving and near-photographic recall of their holiday in the Alps. 5 withdrawal, recantation, cancellation, revocation, annulment, nullification, recision, rescission, retraction, repeal, disavowal, denial: The decision was made without any possibility of recall. 6 withdrawal, retraction, return: The manufacturer's recall of the shipment of defective toasters was voluntary.
recapitulate v. summarize, sum up; repeat, go over (again), reiterate, restate, review; recount, enumerate, recite, relate, list, Colloq recap: I shall begin by recapitulating some of the issues which I covered in my last lecture.
receipt n. 1 sales receipt, register receipt, sales slip, ticket, stub, counterfoil, proof of purchase, voucher: Any request for a return or exchange must be accompanied by a receipt. 2 delivery, acceptance, reception, arrival: He has acknowledged receipt of the merchandise. 3 receipts. income, proceeds, gate, takings, gains, return, Colloq take: The receipts from ticket sales were below expectations.
recent adj. late, latest, new, just out, brand-new, fresh; current, modern, up to date, late-model: This feature is now supplied as standard on all our more recent models. Recent arrivals will be interviewed by the committee.
reception n. 1 welcome, greeting, treatment, reaction, response: My suggestion that we open a bottle of champagne met with a warm reception. 2 party, levee, social, soire, function; opening, preview, vernissage, Colloq do: Would you like to go to a reception at the new art gallery next week?
recess n. 1 alcove, niche, nook, cranny, bay, hollow: The statuette fits perfectly in that recess outside the library. 2 respite, rest, interlude, time off, break, intermission, breather, breathing-spell, pause; holiday, vacation: A brief recess has been scheduled to allow us to relax before continuing. 3 recesses. innermost reaches, corners, secret places, depths, penetralia: I searched for her name in the recesses of my mind.
recipe n. 1 formula, prescription: Elizabeth gave me a marvellous recipe for chocolate cake. 2 plan, procedure, method, approach, technique, way, means, system, programme, modus operandi, Colloq US MO: The minister insists that his recipe for conquering inflation will work.
reciprocal adj. mutual, exchanged, returned, complementary, correlative, common, shared, joint, requited: The reciprocal courtesies enjoyed among our neighbours benefit us all.
recital n. 1 (solo) concert, performance, musicale, presentation, show, entertainment: We have tickets to a recital for that night. 2 report, narration, account, recitation, description, relation, telling, recounting, narrative, rendition, interpretation, version, recapitulation, rehearsal, repetition, Colloq recap: A reporter who was on the flight provided us with a recital of the events leading up to the crash.
recite v. 1 quote, repeat, present: In the old days, children were often called upon to recite poems they had learned by heart. 2 report, narrate, recount, relate, tell, describe, detail, chronicle, list, share, recapitulate, repeat, Colloq recap: Again I recited every particular of the hold-up that I could recall.
reckon v. 1 Often, reckon up. calculate, compute, add (up), figure (up), tally (up), sum up, total (up), work out or up: If you reckon up the bill, I'll pay it at once. 2 include, count, number, enumerate, list, name, consider, account, judge, deem, look upon, regard, view, think of, hold, gauge, estimate, appraise, value, rank, rate, class: I have always reckoned Arthur as being among my closest friends. 3 suppose, think, assume, presume, dare say, venture, imagine, fancy, consider, conclude, be of the opinion, US or colloq guess: She reckoned that no one could accuse her of idle chatter. 4 reckon on or upon. count on, rely on, depend on, lean on, trust in, take for granted, Colloq bank on: I was reckoning on your help, and I hope you won't disappoint me. 5 reckon with. a settle (accounts) with, take care of, look after, see or attend to, deal with, handle, pay attention to, think about: I have to go now, but I'll reckon with you later. b take into account or consideration, consider, contemplate, account for, remember, bear in mind: He thought he had got away with it, but he failed to reckon with Inspector Harris of the CID.
reclaim v. restore, recover, rescue, redeem, salvage, save, regain, retrieve, regenerate, rejuvenate: Much of the farmland was reclaimed from the sea.
recluse n. hermit, anchorite or anchoress, monk or nun, eremite: For the past ten years, he has been living the life of a recluse. reclusive adj. solitary, lone, secluded, isolated, eremitic(al), hermitic, anchoritic, monastic, cloistered, sequestered, retiring, shut off: She insists that she enjoys her reclusive existence.
recognize v. 1 identify, detect, place, recall, remember, recollect, know (again): I recognized him from seeing his picture in the newspaper. 2 acknowledge, perceive, understand, realize, see, admit, accept, own, concede, allow, grant, appreciate, respect, be aware of: He refuses to recognize that he is responsible for his own actions. 3 approve, sanction, endorse, accept, validate, ratify: A totalitarian government refuses to recognize the rights of the individual. 4 honour, give recognition to, salute, show gratitude or appreciation, reward, distinguish, pay respect, do homage: The society recognizes Dr Jackson for his many contributions to science.
recollect v. recall, remember, call to mind: Now that you mention it, I do recollect your asking me to buy some milk when I went out.
recommend v. 1 counsel, advise, guide, urge, exhort, suggest, advocate, propose, (put) forward, propound, persuade: He recommended that the entire system should be changed. 2 endorse, praise, commend, mention favourably, vouch for, second, subscribe to, back, push, favour, approve, underwrite, stand up for, support, promote, Colloq tout, plug: I wish Charles would stop recommending his brother-in-law for a job with us. 3 make attractive or advisable or interesting or acceptable: Wendover has little to recommend it as a tourist spot.
reconcile v. 1 get or bring (back) together, unite, reunite, settle or resolve differences between, restore harmony between, make peace between, placate, make compatible: Do you think that a marriage counsellor could help reconcile John and Martha? 2 resign, submit, accommodate, adjust: Lady Mary Wortley Montague wrote that she was reconciled to being a woman when she reflected that she was thus in no danger of ever marrying one.
recondite adj. abstruse, arcane, obscure, esoteric, deep, profound, incomprehensible, unfathomable, impenetrable, undecipherable, opaque, dark, occult, cabbalistic or cabalistic or kabbalistic, inexplicable, enigmatic: I have difficulty following the more recondite aspects of information theory.
reconnoitre v. survey, examine, scout (out), scan, explore, investigate, inspect, scrutinize, check out, check up (on), Slang Brit recce: We reconnoitred the territory and reported the enemy troop movements.
recount v. 1 relate, narrate, tell, recite, report, communicate, impart, unfold: The old man recounted for us the legend of the two-headed lamb. 2 particularize, review, detail, describe, enumerate, specify: Must I recount every particular all over again?
recourse n. 1 resort, access, entre, admittance, availability: They are completely isolated and without recourse to help from the outside world. 2 resource, backup, reserve, refuge, place to turn, alternative, remedy: The company has no recourse against the authorities.
recovery n. 1 recuperation, convalescence, restoration, improvement, healing, rally, turn for the better; rise, revival, increase, amelioration, bettering, betterment, advance, gain, advance, advancement, Colloq pick-up, comeback: After so serious an illness, Bentley has made a remarkable recovery. Share prices staged a recovery after the reduction in interest rates. 2 retrieval, recouping, repossession, retaking, restoration, reclamation; recapture, redemption: The recovery of the stolen gems was credited to excellent detective work. Hard fighting resulted in the recovery of the land west of the river. 3 salvage, delivery, deliverance, rescue, return, saving, reclamation, retrieval: Recovery of the climbers' bodies from the ravine was very hazardous.
recrimination n. counter-accusation, countercharge, retaliation, counter-attack, blaming, aspersion, reprisal: Recriminations for real and imagined ills were continually exchanged throughout their marriage.
rectify v. correct, revise, redress, put or set right, cure, repair, remedy, improve, emend, fix, adjust, square, ameliorate: What do you intend to do to rectify the damage you have done?
recumbent adj. reclining, lying down, flat on one's back, horizontal, lying, reposing, accumbent, decumbent, supine, stretched out; leaning (back): Oscar resumed his recumbent posture, sprawled out on the cushions.
recur v. return, happen or occur again, reoccur, repeat, come (back) again, reappear: The condition recurred after a year, and he was obliged to have another operation.
redeem v. 1 reclaim, recover, regain, repossess, retrieve, get back, buy back, repurchase; pay off, Brit clear: He went into the pawn shop to redeem the gold watch. 2 rescue, ransom, deliver, free, save, liberate, set free, emancipate, release: He was able to redeem the boy only after paying the kidnappers. 3 exchange, cash (in), collect on, trade in: These coupons must be redeemed before the end of the month. 4 rehabilitate, save, reform, convert, absolve, restore to favour, reinstate: She can be redeemed only by atoning for her sins. 5 make amends for, make up for, atone for, redress, compensate for, offset, make restitution for: Do you think that 200 hours of community service was enough to redeem his crime of snatching handbags in the shopping centre? 6 perform, fulfil, keep, make good (on), discharge, satisfy, abide by, keep faith with, be faithful to, hold to, carry out, see through: Helen is here to redeem her promise to help at the charity bazaar.
redolent adj. 1 fragrant, sweet-smelling, aromatic, perfumed, odorous, scented, savoury: The entire house was redolent with the odour of pine needles. 2 redolent with or of. reminiscent of, suggestive of, evocative of, remindful of, characteristic of, having the earmarks or hallmark of: The style of the film is redolent of 1930s Hollywood.
redundant adj. 1 superfluous, unnecessary, surplus, inessential or unessential, non-essential, unneeded, unwanted, de trop, in excess, excessive: He was made redundant at the age of forty-five and was unable to find another job. 2 wordy, verbose, prolix, over-long, long-winded, repetitious, tautologic(al) or tautologous, circumlocutory, roundabout: The book would be improved if certain redundant passages were improved.
reel v. 1 stagger, totter, waver, stumble, lurch, falter, roll, rock, sway, flounder, pitch: Chris came reeling down the lane, dead drunk. 2 reel off. list, recite, rattle off, enumerate, review, itemize, name, read off, call off, run through, run over: Under questioning, the suspect began to reel off the names of his accomplices.
reference n. 1 allusion, mention, remark, referral, direction, indication, specification, naming, quotation, citation, note, notation, notification, hint, intimation, innuendo, insinuation: I can't find a reference in any footnote. Few readers make use of the bibliographical references in scholarly articles. Her persistent references to my baldness embarrass me. 2 regard, concern, connection, respect, relation, relevance, pertinence: People are selected without reference to race, creed, colour, sex, or age. 3 endorsement, recommendation, testimonial, certification; credentials: I relied on my former employer to give me a good reference. We shall not be needing to take up your references.
refined adj. 1 cultivated, cultured, civilized, polished, sophisticated, urbane, elegant, well-bred, genteel, courtly, ladylike, gentlemanly, polite, courteous, mannerly, well-mannered, gracious, gentle, noble, aristocratic, dignified, elevated, Colloq posh: It is seldom that I find myself in such refined company. 2 subtle, discriminating, discerning, sensitive, fastidious, nice, precise, exacting, cultured, educated, cultivated, knowledgeable, advanced, sophisticated: Her taste in the visual arts is fairly refined, but she knows little about music. 3 exact, precise, fine, subtle, sensitive, nice, sophisticated: In his poetry one encounters an extremely refined use of metaphor. These new devices are far more refined than any previously available. 4 purified, clarified, cleansed, pure, clean; distilled: Only refined chemicals may be used in pharmaceuticals.
reflect v. 1 mirror, send or throw back, reproduce, return; echo: The smooth surface of the lake reflected the sunlight. The radio waves are reflected and focused by this parabolic dish. 2 show, demonstrate, exhibit, illustrate, exemplify, reveal, lay bare, expose, display, disclose, bring to light, uncover, point to, indicate, suggest, evidence: They say that your true emotions are reflected in your dreams. His crime reflects the depths of depravity to which a person can sink. 3 Often, reflect about or on. think (about or over or on), contemplate, muse (about or on), consider, ponder (about or over or on), deliberate (on or over), ruminate or meditate (about or on or over), cogitate (about or on or over); mull over, weigh, evaluate, examine: I was just sitting here reflecting. I was reflecting on what you said about wanting to quit your job. 4 reflect on or upon. result in, end in, bring, attract, cast, throw: The success of the team reflects credit on the coach.
reflective adj. reflecting, thoughtful, pensive, contemplative, meditating, musing, meditative, cogitating, cogitative, ruminating, deliberative, deliberating, pondering: I found Alan in a reflective mood, staring out of the window.
reform school n. Brit youth custody centre, CHE (= 'community home (with education on the premises')), Formerly Borstal, approved school, US reformatory: He was sent to a reform school because of his persistent misbehaviour.
refrain n. melody, song, tune, chorus, burden, reprise: It was one of those long boring folk songs with a refrain that we were all supposed to join in.
refreshing adj. invigorating, stimulating, bracing, exhilarating, fresh, inspiriting, fortifying, tonic, like a breath of fresh air, rejuvenating, enlivening, vitalizing, revitalizing; cooling, thirst-quenching, slaking: It's refreshing to be around young people. I would love a cool refreshing glass of beer right now.
refrigerate v. cool, chill, keep cool or cold or chilled, ice, freeze: The souffl must be refrigerated for three hours to allow it to set.
refugee n. fugitive, runaway, escapee, displaced person, DP, exile, migr: The problem of the refugees was most acute after the war.
refusal n. 1 denial, rejection, disapproval, turn-down: She pleaded against the grand vizier's refusal to grant amnesty to her brother. 2 option, choice, privilege, disposal: We were promised first refusal on the house should it come on the market.
refuse n. rubbish, sweepings, waste, litter, dust, dirt, dregs, dross, garbage, debris, detritus, cast-offs, junk, Chiefly US trash: Refuse collection is scheduled for once a week.
regale v. entertain, amuse, delight, divert, indulge, please, gratify, captivate, fascinate, entrance, enchant, spellbind, bewitch, charm, enrapture: She regaled them with entertaining tales of her travels.
regard v. 1 view, look at or upon or on, observe, note, notice, watch, eye, keep an eye on, gaze at or upon, stare at: The children regarded the magician's performance with great interest. 2 contemplate, consider, perceive, view, look upon or on, treat: The lion looked at me as if he regarded me as his dinner. Smith appears to regard his appointment as treasurer as a licence to steal. 3 respect, esteem, value: Gwen's friends regard her very highly indeed. 4 consider, view, look upon or on, think (of), judge, deem, rate, believe (to be), gauge, see, pay heed or attention to, esteem, account, take into account, imagine, reckon, evaluate: I don't regard her as a likely suspect. He regards his professor as his mentor. 5 concern, relate to, be relevant to, pertain to, apply to, refer to, affect, have (a) bearing on, bear on or upon, involve, have to do with, go for: Our discussion regarded the disappearance of 10 from petty cash. --n. 6 reference, relation, relevance, relevancy, association, pertinence, application, bearing, connection, link, tie-in: We would like to talk to you with regard to your application for the post of assistant editor. 7 respect, consideration, attention, reverence, veneration, awe, deference, honour, favour, esteem, high opinion, approval, approbation, appreciation, admiration, affection, fondness: They have no regard for the law. 8 point, particular, respect, aspect, detail, matter: In this regard, I must take your past record into consideration. 9 care, concern, thought, consideration, respect, sympathy, feeling, sentiment; heed, attention, notice, mind: The police behave as if they have no regard for the safety of the hostages. This work reflects the artisan's regard for detail. 10 regards. best wishes, good wishes, compliments, greetings, respects, salutations, Archaic devoirs: Please give my regards to your father.
regardless adj. 1 Sometimes, regardless of. despite, notwithstanding; in spite of, heedless of, Non-Standard irregardless: Regardless of her father's protestations, she continued to go out with William. --adv. 2 notwithstanding, nevertheless, no matter what, in any event, in any case, at all events, anyway, anyhow, Non-Standard irregardless: She heard his threats but is going out with William regardless.
regiment v. discipline, order, organize, systematize, whip into shape, standardize, regulate, control: I dislike the way management regiments people in this establishment, as if they were schoolchildren.
register n. 1 record, roll, roster, rota, catalogue, annal(s), archive(s), journal, daybook, diary, appointment book, calendar, chronicle, schedule, programme, directory, ledger, file, index, inventory, list, listing, poll, tally,: The council holds a register of all houses sold since 1900 with the names of both sellers and buyers. 2 cash register, till, money box, cash-box: The money in the register does not agree with the figures for receipts. --v. 3 record, write or jot or take or put or set down, list, enrol, sign in or on or up, enter, catalogue, log, index, chronicle, note, make or take note (of): All transactions must be registered. 4 show, display, express, indicate, manifest, reveal, betray, divulge, record, reflect: James pretended to like my book, but his contempt for it was registered on his face. 5 make known, inform of, advise, transmit, communicate, record, note, make note of, report, write down, minute: I wish to register my disapproval of the way prisoners are treated here. 6 check in, sign in or on, log in: In the US, all aliens are required to register each year in January. We registered in the hotel as man and wife. 7 Sometimes, register with or on. sink in, impress, become apparent (to), make an impression (on), come home (to), get through (to); dawn on or upon, occur to: I heard what you said, but it just didn't register. The name didn't register with me at first, but I now know who you are. 8 indicate, read, mark, represent, measure, point to, specify, exhibit, show, manifest: The earthquake registered 7 on the Richter scale.
regretful adj. rueful, mournful, sad, repentant, guilty, sorry, sorrowful, disappointed, contrite, remorseful, apologetic, penitent: He was most regretful for the way he had behaved.
regularity n. 1 consistency, constancy, uniformity, evenness, sameness, symmetry, balance, harmony, harmoniousness, orderliness, order, stability, predictability: To the casual observer, nothing interferes with the regularity of planetary movement. 2 routine, reliability, dependability, steadiness, invariability; pace, rhythm, cadence: Mr Warbridge listens to the six o'clock evening news with unfailing regularity. Our business depends on the regularity of the postal service. The regularity of the ticking of the clock is driving me mad.
regulation n. 1 adjustment, modification, modulation, control, balance, balancing, setting, fixing, organization, maintenance: The regulation of the temperature is accomplished by the thermostat. 2 rule, ruling, law, code, by-law or bye-law, edict, order, ordinance, statute, decree, directive, dictate: There are strict regulations governing the sale, disposal, and movement of radioactive materials. 3 edict, ukase, pronouncement, fiat, (papal) bull, proclamation: A regulation was issued against meetings of more than five people. --adj. 4 standard, accepted, official, required, prescribed, mandatory: The soldier was not wearing a regulation uniform. 5 usual, normal, ordinary, customary, typical: If you use anything but regulation accessories, the guarantee will be null and void.
rehabilitate v. 1 restore, save, reclaim, rescue, redeem, re-establish, reinstate, re-educate, reorient, reform, US straighten out, Colloq US rehab: They have had marked success at rehabilitating criminals. 2 renew, redecorate, renovate, refurbish, restore, fix (up), repair, reconstruct, rebuild, change, transform: Sam has plans to rehabilitate vintage cars for a living.
rehearsal n. 1 practice, exercise, dry run, drill, run-through, read-through, dress rehearsal, Technical undress rehearsal: Is there a rehearsal of the school play scheduled for tonight? 2 narration, recounting, relation, recital, telling, description, enumeration, account, repetition, repeat: Do we have to listen to yet another rehearsal of your great-uncle's exploits in the war?
reign n. 1 rule, sovereignty, ascendancy, power, hegemony, influence, command, suzerainty, administration, jurisdiction, leadership, government, direction, control, domination, mastery; kingdom, monarchy, empire: During her reign, the kingdom saw its greatest prosperity. --v. 2 rule, control, command, govern, lead, direct, dominate, supervise, manage, hold sway, wear the crown, wield the sceptre, occupy the throne, Colloq run the show, rule the roost, Slang call the shots: During the sixth Egyptian dynasty, Pepi II Nefektare reigned for 94 years, the longest in recorded history. 3 prevail, be or become prevalent, predominate, hold sway, obtain, be or become rampant, be or become universal: An argument broke out, which developed into a fist fight, and soon pandemonium reigned.
rein n. 1 check, curb, control, restraint, constraint, limitation, harness, bridle, brake: You are going to have to put a rein on your expenses. 2 reins. control, command, control, administration, running, leadership, power, rule, tiller, helm: He should hand over the reins to a younger person. --v. 3 rein in. check, curb, control, restrain, limit, harness, bridle, restrict, pull back on: You will have to rein in your passions: it is not becoming to behave in this way at your age.
reinforcement n. 1 buttress, support, prop, brace, stay, bolster: This iron reinforcement ought to be strong enough to secure the wall. 2 strengthening, buttressing, bolstering, shoring (up), augmentation, bracing: This shelf is wobbly and in need of reinforcement. 3 reinforcements. reserves, auxiliaries, men, soldiers, forces, personnel: We cannot hold out till reinforcements arrive.
reject v. 1 decline, refuse, disallow, spurn, veto, turn down, give (something) the thumbs down, set aside, US turn thumbs down (on); deny, repudiate, renounce, rebuff, shun, brush aside, turn a deaf ear to, will not hear of: Jim has rejected my plan for a holiday in Torremolinos. She rejects any suggestion that she might be wrong. 2 refuse, repel, repulse, spurn, rebuff, say no to, turn down, decline, brush aside; jilt, drop, dismiss, throw over, give (someone) the cold shoulder, show (someone) the door, send (someone) away or on his or her or their way, turn one's back on, Slang give (someone) the brush-off or US also the brush, give (someone) his or her walking papers, Brit give (someone) the boot: Ted proposed, but Alice rejected him. 3 throw away or out, discard, disown, jettison, eliminate, scrap, Colloq junk, scratch: The inspector rejects all defective merchandise. --n. 4 second, irregular, discard, cast-off: The rejects are sold at reduced prices in the factory shop.
rejoice v. delight, exult, glory, celebrate, revel, be happy or delighted or pleased or overjoyed or elated or glad, Colloq be tickled (pink): We all rejoiced to be home once again after the ordeal.
relapse v. 1 get back, backslide, fall back, lapse, slip back, regress, retrogress, recidivate; go back, return, retreat, revert: Lottie has relapsed into her bad habits. 2 decline, deteriorate, weaken, degenerate, fail, fade, sink, sicken, worsen, get or become worse: Just when we thought he was improving, he relapsed into a coma and died. --n. 3 backsliding, falling or going back, lapse, lapsing, return, returning, reversion, reverting, regression, regressing, retrogression, retrogressing, recidivism, apostasy: The church's main concern was a relapse into idolatry. 4 decline, deterioration, weakening, degeneration, failing, failure, fading, sinking, worsening: Barry was getting better but has now suffered a relapse.
related adj. 1 associate(d), affiliate(d), connected, coupled, linked, tied up, allied, correlated, coordinate(d), interconnected, interrelated, interdependent, mutual, reciprocal, common, joint, cognate: She and her husband work for related companies. 2 kin, kindred, consanguineous, cognate, agnate; akin: Just how are you two related? Are you cousins?
relationship n. See relation, 1, 2, above.
relatively adv. more or less, somewhat, comparatively, rather, to some degree or extent: Business has been relatively quiet lately.
relaxation n. 1 ease, repose, rest, leisure, recreation, amusement, entertainment, fun, pleasure, diversion, Colloq R and R ('rest and relaxation'): For relaxation we usually charter a boat and go sailing. 2 easing (up or off), relief, alleviation, abatement, diminution, lessening, mitigation, moderation, slackening, remission, weakening, letting up, Colloq let-up: What do you think about the proposed relaxation of the laws against pornography?
release v. 1 let go, (set) free, liberate, (set or let or turn) loose, unloose, untie, unchain, unfetter, unshackle, deliver, let out, disenthral, discharge, let off, emancipate, manumit, rescue, save: They kept up a strenuous campaign until all the political prisoners were released. 2 issue, publish, make available, put out, pass out, hand out, come out with, circulate, distribute, disseminate; launch, unveil, present: The government refuses to release information that is considered harmful to its interests. The band's new album will be released tomorrow. --n. 3 freeing, releasing, liberating, loosing, unloosing, delivering, emancipating, manumitting, rescuing, saving, freedom, liberation, deliverance, discharge, emancipation, manumission, rescue, remission, salvation: The release of the prisoner is scheduled for noon. It would be a great release to be rid of housework. 4 press or publicity release, announcement, publicity, notice, story, report: The press office sent out a release to the media about Randolph's appointment.
relent v. relax, soften, yield, give, give way or ground, bend, comply, acquiesce, compromise, capitulate, come round, be merciful, show pity or compassion, melt, show mercy, succumb: They finally relented and allowed me to have visitors.
relevance n. relevancy, appropriateness, aptness, pertinence, bearing, connection, affinity, tie-in, relation, significance, suitability, suitableness, applicability, application, applicableness: What you just said has no relevance whatsoever to the issue under discussion.
reliable adj. dependable, trustworthy, honest, trusty, trusted, principled, conscientious, punctilious, honourable, credible, believable, safe, sure, certain, secure, sound, responsible, predictable, stable, unfailing, infallible, reputable: Would a reliable employee like Susan abscond with the money?
relic n. 1 memento, keepsake, memorial, remembrance, souvenir, heirloom, token, artefact or artifact: It has been argued again and again that the Turin shroud, though old, is not a genuine relic of Christ. 2 remains; fragment, trace, scrap, shard or sherd, remnant: Deep in the jungle, archaeologists unearthed relics of a previously unknown civilization.
relieve v. 1 ease, lessen, reduce, diminish, abate, lift, raise, alleviate, mitigate, palliate, soften, soothe: Business will suffer if nothing is done to relieve the burden of high interest rates. The doctor gave me something to relieve the pain. 2 disburden, free, rid, liberate, disencumber, unburden, rescue, save, release: Winning the lottery relieved me of any immediate worries of poverty. 3 help, aid, assist, support, succour, rescue, save, deliver: Will the cavalry arrive in time to relieve the fort, which is under attack? 4 stand in (for), replace, substitute for, take over for or from, US spell, Colloq sub for: I thought you were coming to relieve me at noon.
religious adj. 1 devout, churchgoing, pious, God-fearing, holy, spiritual-minded: You never struck me as a particularly religious person. 2 scrupulous, exact, precise, conscientious, rigorous, strict, fastidious, meticulous, faithful, punctilious, unerring, unswerving, undeviating: Edmund's work is characterized by religious devotion to detail.
relish n. 1 enjoyment, pleasure, delight, gusto, eagerness, avidity, anticipation, taste, appetite, zest, liking, appreciation, fondness, fancy, partiality, preference: The children attacked the birthday cake with great relish. --v. 2 enjoy, delight in, take pleasure in, fancy, be partial to, appreciate, savour, look forward to, anticipate: After all that dining out, I'd really relish a home-cooked meal. I don't relish having to tell her she is being made redundant.
reluctant adj. unwilling, disinclined, averse, hesitant, loath, unenthusiastic, indisposed, opposed, antagonistic; cautious, chary, wary, leery, circumspect, careful: I remember how reluctant you were to try raw oysters, and then you couldn't get enough of them.
remain v. 1 stay (behind), be left, tarry, linger, wait, Colloq stay put: I remained to help with the washing-up. 2 be left, be there: How many days remain before your trip? 3 stay, continue, carry on, abide; endure, persist, last, persevere: She refuses to remain with him another minute. His last book will remain a monument to his scholarship. --n. 4 remains. a leavings, remnants, crumbs, debris, detritus, remainder, balance, residue, leftovers, scraps, vestiges, traces, fragments, oddments, odds and ends: The remains of a half-eaten meal were on the table. b body, cadaver, corpse; carcass: The remains of the impala were being picked over by vultures.
remaining adj. 1 left (over), extant, outstanding: I did as much as I could in the time remaining. 2 leftover, surviving, residual; unused, uneaten, unconsumed: The remaining books will be sold at auction.
remarkable adj. 1 extraordinary, unusual, singular, exceptional, noteworthy, notable, uncommon, incredible, unbelievable, impressive, phenomenal, astonishing, astounding, surprising: With remarkable swiftness the falcon dropped on its prey. 2 striking, distinguished, signal, special, wonderful, marvellous, out of the ordinary, special, unique, significant, outstanding, rare, memorable, unforgettable, never-to-be-forgotten: This novel is truly a remarkable achievement. 3 strange, different, odd, peculiar, curious: Contortionists can do truly remarkable things with their bodies.
remember v. 1 call to mind, bear in mind; recall, recollect: Can you remember her funny little laugh? Yes, I remember. 2 muse (on or about), reminisce over or about, think back on or about, memorialize, commemorate, recognize: He will be remembered for his many achievements. 3 retain, keep in mind, recall: He was unable to remember his own name or where he lived. 4 tip, reward: The Elliotts always remembered the servants at Christmas.
remind v. prompt, cue, cause to remember, jog the memory, put in mind of: Remind me to set the clock back an hour tonight.
reminisce v. Sometimes, reminisce about. remember, recollect, think back, look back, turn one's mind or thoughts back; call to mind, hark back, return: Most of the time we just sit about and reminisce. The other day we were reminiscing about the time Alex was arrested for shoplifting.
reminiscent adj. Usually, reminiscent of. recalling, redolent of, evocative of, indicative of, suggestive of, similar to, comparable with or to: The odour of burning cabbage is reminiscent of my husband's cooking.
remission n. 1 forgiveness, pardon, deliverance, amnesty, reprieve, exoneration, release, absolution, exculpation, indulgence, excuse, exemption, acquittal: As we were granted remission of our crimes, we were freed. 2 diminution, abatement, decrease, lessening, subsidence, alleviation, mitigation, assuagement, ebbing, relaxation, easing: Remission of the disease may occur, but most sufferers deteriorate rapidly.
remittance n. payment, settlement: allowance, consideration: Remittance was made regularly on the tenth of the month. He lives on remittances he receives from home.
remorse n. regret, repentance, ruefulness, sorrow, woe, anxiety, guilty or bad conscience, pangs of conscience, humiliation, embarrassment, guilt, self-reproach, mortification, shame, contrition, contriteness, penitence, compunction, bitterness: It is impossible to describe the remorse he felt at having run over the little girl's puppy.
remorseless adj. 1 cruel, heartless, callous, harsh, hard-hearted, stony-hearted, savage, merciless, unmerciful, pitiless, ruthless: The heavyweight champion administered a remorseless beating to the challenger. 2 relentless, unrelenting, unremitting, unstoppable, inexorable, implacable: The remorseless storm thrashed at our tiny vessel, tearing away every last shred of rigging.
removal n. 1 elimination, removing, eradication, taking away: The removal of the wallpaper revealed that the plaster underneath was in very poor condition. 2 extermination, murder, elimination, killing, slaying, assassination, execution, liquidation, eradication, massacre, slaughter, purge, doing away with, Slang bumping off, rubbing out, doing in, US rub-out, wasting: The removal of the finance minister was accomplished by the secret police. 3 dismissal, transfer, transference, transferral, shifting, discharge, throwing over, throwing out, deposition, unseating, dethroning, dethronement, displacement, expulsion, ouster, ousting, riddance, purge, Colloq firing, sacking: The company functions better since the removal of the former chairman. 4 move, transfer, departure, moving: Her removal to a branch office was requested by top management. 5 moving, house-moving: We hired a removal van when we moved to Shropshire.
remuneration n. 1 payment, compensation, salary, wages, earnings, emolument, income, pay, stipend, consideration, reward: What remuneration will she expect to receive if appointed? 2 recompense, repayment, reimbursement, restitution, reparation(s), damages, indemnity, indemnification, redress: Have they received any remuneration for their loss of property during the earthquake?
rend v. 1 rip or tear or pull (to pieces or apart or asunder), wrench, mangle, shred: The bully threatened to rend me limb from limb. 2 split, tear, rip, rupture, cleave, split, rive, separate, slice, lacerate: When the balloon was rent from top to bottom, the basket fell to the ground. 3 pain, distress, pierce, stab, smite, wound, afflict, torment, wring, hurt: My heart was rent by conflicting emotions.
rendering n. depiction, showing, presentation, interpretation, conception, version, rendition, representation, delineation, portrayal, picture: This is the architect's rendering of what the building will look like when completed.
renegade n. 1 deserter, turncoat, heretic, defector, traitor, apostate, Archaic renegado: The renegade has organized a conspiracy against us. --adj. 2 traitorous, treacherous, perfidious, treasonous, apostate, heretical, disloyal: A renegade band of deserters has turned against the army leaders.
renew v. 1 restore, refresh, rejuvenate, revitalize, reinvigorate, resuscitate, revamp, redo, rehabilitate, transform, regenerate, refurbish, refurnish, renovate, refit, overhaul, recondition, modernize, redecorate, do over: The entire interior of the hotel has been renewed at considerable expense. 2 resume, resurrect, restart, pick or take up again, recommence, return to, reopen: They renewed their argument in favour of the teaching of Latin. 3 restore, replace, restock, replenish: We must renew our supply of claret. 4 repeat, reiterate, reaffirm, confirm, reconfirm, restate, reassert: Each autumn she renews her promise to return in the spring.
renovate v. redecorate, modernize, do over, refurbish, refurnish, refit, remodel; recondition, rehabilitate, restore, repair, revamp, overhaul, patch up, Colloq do up, US fix up: We are having the entire house renovated by an interior decorator. It was quite costly to have those paintings renovated.
renowned adj. famous, famed, celebrated, distinguished, acclaimed, prominent, eminent, well-known, noted, notable, honoured, illustrious: He was one of the most renowned authors of the 19th century.
rent n. tear, rip, split, gash, slash, hole, slit: The skirt has a six-inch rent in it.
repartee n. banter, badinage, persiflage, patter, (witty) conversation, wordplay, raillery, give and take, Literary deipnosophism: Simon's witty repartee makes him a most welcome dinner guest.
repeal v. 1 revoke, recall, rescind, reverse, cancel, annul, nullify, invalidate, void, set aside, abolish, abrogate, Law vacate: They have repealed the rule forbidding guests to wear shorts in the restaurant. --n. 2 revocation, recall, rescission, rescindment, reversal, cancellation, annulment, nullification, invalidation, voiding, abolition, abrogation: Alcoholic beverages were forbidden in the US until the repeal of Prohibition.
repeatedly adv. again and again, over again, over and over, frequently, often, time and (time) again, time after time, recurrently, repetitively, repetitiously: The needle stuck, and the record player kept playing the same thing repeatedly.
repellent adj. repulsive, repelling, revolting, disgusting, nauseating, nauseous, stomach-turning, sickening, offensive, loathsome, repugnant, distasteful, vomit-provoking, sick-making, disagreeable, obnoxious, off-putting: He described some of the more repellent examples of vivisection he had encountered.
repentant adj. regretful, contrite, rueful, remorseful, apologetic, sorry, ashamed, embarrassed, penitent: It was terrible that she wasn't the least bit repentant for what she had done.
repertory n. repertoire, store, reservoir, collection, hoard, cache, repository, stock, supply, inventory, stockpile: Cosgrove felt compelled to run through his entire repertory of jokes at dinner.
repetitious adj. tiresome, tedious, boring, redundant, prolix, windy, long-winded, wordy, tautological, pleonastic: Streatham's lectures are very repetitious - he makes the same point over and over again.
replace v. 1 change, put in place of, substitute, supplant, renew: If the toy won't work, try replacing the batteries. 2 succeed, supersede, substitute for, take over from, supplant: Tim will be replacing David as department head. 3 restore, return, put back, make good (on), repay, refund, make restitution for: Are you going to replace the money you took?
replete adj. 1 Often, replete with. full (of), filled up (with), overflowing (with), well supplied or well provided or well stocked (with), chock-full (of), crammed or jammed or jam-packed (with), brim-full (with), chock-a-block, bursting, teeming, loaded, overloaded (with), gorged (with), stuffed (with), Colloq up to the eyes or ears (in), up to here or there (in), US up to the old wazoo (in), Slang lousy (with), Taboo slang up to the Brit arse (in) or US ass (in): His speech was replete with names, dates, and precise quotations, all delivered without a note of any kind. 2 satisfied, sated, satiated: After a meal like that, anybody would feel replete.
reply v. 1 answer, respond, rejoin, retort, return, come back, acknowledge: When I asked where he had been, he refused to reply and walked out of the room. --n. 2 answer, response, rejoinder, retort, comeback, riposte, reaction, US rise: I have written to the prime minister but as yet have had no reply.
reporter n. journalist, newspaperman, newspaperwoman, newsman, newswoman, correspondent, columnist, newswriter, gentleman or lady of the press, gentleman or lady of the fourth estate, Brit pressman, presswoman; newscaster, news-presenter, commentator, broadcaster, anchorman, anchorwoman; photojournalist, cameraman, camerawoman, Colloq news-hound, news-hawk, news-hen, stringer: Reporters swarmed around the footballers who had returned home with the World Cup.
represent v. 1 substitute for, stand (in) for, replace, act for: I have appointed her to represent me in all legal matters. 2 Often, represent oneself as. present (oneself), depict (oneself), put or set (oneself) forth, masquerade as, take (on) or assume the guise or role or part of, characterize as, impersonate, pretend to be, pose as, imitate, mimic: He represents himself as a plumber in order to get into houses to rob them. His wife was represented to me as a social worker. 3 describe, delineate, reproduce, report, assert, state, put or set forth, show, reflect, mirror, characterize, define, note, outline, sketch, depict, picture, portray, draw, paint; pretend: What took place that fateful day is not as represented in Inspector Taylor's testimony. 4 symbolize, stand for, typify, exemplify, embody, epitomize; illustrate: He represents all that is good in the world today.
representative adj. 1 symbolic, typical, characteristic, emblematic, archetypal, evocative, illustrative: Is this a representative sample? These poems are not representative of your best work. 2 elected, chosen, democratic: They are struggling to establish a representative form of government. --n. 3 agent, deputy, legate, ambassador, (papal) nuncio, spokesman, spokeswoman, proxy, delegate, envoy, emissary, missionary, commissioner; Member of Parliament, MP, Councillor, Congressman, Assemblyman, Assemblywoman: We like to think that our representatives are acting on our behalf. 4 agent, (travelling) salesman or saleswoman, Colloq rep: We have hired a new representative to sell refrigerators in the north of the country.
repression n. 1 restraint, suppression, subjugation: Increasing repression of their liberties finally led the people to revolt. 2 check, squelching, control, inhibition, hampering, hindering, hindrance, stifling, deterring, frustration, frustrating: The repression of the revolt was unsuccessful.
reprieve v. 1 respite, rescue, save; let off, spare: The Home Secretary reprieved the prisoner from execution pending further investigation. --n. 2 delay, postponement, suspension, remission, respite, stay, amnesty: The governor granted the condemned man a reprieve at the eleventh hour.
reprisal n. retaliation, revenge, retribution, redress, requital, vengeance, repayment, recompense, vindication, getting even, indemnity: She refused to be named because she feared reprisals. How many hostages did they shoot in reprisal?
reprobate adj. 1 unprincipled, immoral, amoral, abandoned, depraved, despicable, dissolute, low, low-life, base, mean, debased, damned, accursed, cursed, degenerate, profligate, shameful, shameless, vile, evil, wicked, villainous, sinful, irredeemable, foul, iniquitous, reprehensible: Such reprobate behaviour soon brought him to the attention of the church fathers. --n. 2 scoundrel, blackguard, miscreant, rake, profligate, rou, villain, wastrel, wretch, degenerate, unprincipled person, villain, evil-doer, debauchee, libertine, good-for-nothing, ne'er-do-well, cur, rapscallion, scamp, knave, rascal, US low-life, Colloq scallywag or scalawag: I can't understand what she sees in that old reprobate.
reproduction n. 1 duplication, copying, printing: Unlicensed reproduction of this film is against the law. 2 duplicate, copy, print, clone, carbon (copy), facsimile, replica, look-alike, double, twin, imitation: The reproductions look better than the original. 3 propagation, breeding, spawning, proliferation, production: Today's lecture concerns reproduction and breeding habits of large sea-mammals. reproof n. See reprimand, 1, above. reprove v. See reprimand, 2, above.
repugnant adj. repulsive, abhorrent, disgusting, off-putting, offensive, repellent, revolting, vile, abominable, loathsome, foul, distasteful, unpalatable, unsavoury, execrable, intolerable, obnoxious, noisome, nauseating, nauseous, sickening, unpleasant, objectionable: I find the very thought of seeing them again repugnant.
repulsive adj. disgusting, revolting, abhorrent, loathsome, repugnant, repellent, offensive, obnoxious, objectionable, gross, unsavoury, distasteful, nasty, unpleasant, displeasing, disagreeable, ugly, off-putting, sickening, nauseating, nauseous, beastly, vile, dreadful, awful, rotten, feculent, foul, odious, horrible, horrid, abominable, execrable, fulsome: I have seldom had so repulsive an experience as the tour of that abattoir. The repulsive sights and smells were more than I could bear.
reputation n. 1 repute, name, standing, stature, position, status: Jean is a woman of excellent reputation in the community. 2 have a reputation for. be known or noted or notorious or famous for: The company has a reputation for dismissing employees without notice.
request v. 1 ask for, seek, plead for, apply for, put in for, requisition, call for, demand, insist on, solicit, beg, entreat, beseech, importune: They request my cooperation. I requested to be excused. He requested her to open the door for him. --n. 2 plea, petition, application, requisition, call, demand, solicitation, entreaty: We receive many requests for information.
requirement n. 1 requisite, prerequisite, demand, precondition, condition, qualification, stipulation, sine qua non, provision, proviso, demand, necessity, essential, desideratum, must: It is a requirement of the loan agreement that you maintain an account with this bank. 2 need, want, demand: We hope the new design will meet all your requirements.
requital n. 1 repayment, return, recompense, redress, restitution, reparation, remuneration, quittance, amends, satisfaction, compensation, payment: I look forward to an opportunity to make requital for all the favours you have done for me. 2 revenge, retaliation, retribution, reprisal, vengeance; quid pro quo, Roland for an Oliver: In requital for his shameful treachery, MacFallon was sent into exile.
rescue v. 1 save, deliver, (set) free, liberate, let go (free), release, (let) loose: We rescued all the men who were being held prisoner. Jane was rescued by a very handsome lifeguard. --n. 2 deliverance, saving; freeing, liberating, release: The seaman's rescue was conducted by a navy helicopter team. Because of the heavy guard, the prisoners' rescue is out of the question.
resemblance n. likeness, similarity; correspondence, congruity, coincidence, conformity, accord, agreement, equivalence, comparableness, comparability, comparison: There is a striking resemblance between your wife and mine. Any resemblance is purely a matter of chance.
resent v. feel embittered or bitter about, feel envious or jealous of, begrudge, have hard feelings about, be displeased or disgruntled at, be angry about: I resent having to go to work while you sit about the house all day.
resentment n. bitterness, acrimony, rancour, envy, jealousy, grudge, indignation, displeasure, dissatisfaction, unhappiness, irritation, annoyance, provocation, pique, anger, ire, fury, agitation, upset, anxiety, ill will, malice, antagonism, hostility, animosity, enmity, antipathy, hate: Some believe that inequality among people provokes resentment.
reserve v. 1 keep or hold (back), withhold, save, set or put aside, conserve, preserve, retain, keep (to or for oneself), hold over, postpone, delay, put off, defer: Reserve judgement till you have heard all the facts. I shall reserve my answer to that question for another day. 2 hold, keep, book, register, save, put or set aside, charter, engage, secure, contract for: I have reserved two seats for the matinee. --n. 3 Often, reserves. store, stock, stockpile, inventory, supply, nest egg, reservoir, fund, hoard, cache: We prayed for rain, as our water reserves were getting low. 4 reticence, (self-)restraint, (self-)control, taciturnity, aplomb, formality, coolness, aloofness, guardedness, standoffishness, remoteness, detachment: I had to admire Paul's reserve in the face of such insults. 5 Often, reserves. auxiliary, alternate, substitute, reinforcements, backup, spare: If battle goes badly, we shall have to call out the reserves. 6 See reservation, 4, above. 7 reservation, restriction, restraint, hesitancy, hesitation, limit, limitation, hedging, avoidance, evasion, dodging, fudging: The lawyer acknowledged without reserve that the case was weak. 8 in reserve. ready, in readiness, on hand, available, on call, accessible, as backup, in store, on tap, at (one's) fingertips: We have huge resources in reserve should we require them.
residence n. 1 abode, home, domicile, dwelling, dwelling-place, place, house, habitation, (living) quarters: A crowd was waiting to greet them outside their residence. 2 residency, stay, sojourn, visit, tenancy: During his residence in Cape Province, he became bilingual in Xhosa. 3 mansion, villa, manor (house), stately home, estate, chteau, castle, palace, Brit hall: The ambassadorial residence was a very imposing structure.
residual adj. remaining, leftover, surplus, spare, extra, residuary: Residual units of the army are still bivouacked in the field. How would we survive nuclear fall-out and the subsequent residual contamination?
resign v. 1 quit, leave, go, abdicate, give notice; retire (from), abandon, give up, forsake, hand over, yield up, renounce, relinquish, let go, release, vacate, surrender, deliver up, turn over: Amanda resigned because she was offered a better job elsewhere. Anthony refused to resign the last of his responsibilities till he was ninety. 2 resign (oneself) (to). reconcile (oneself) (to), be or become resigned or reconciled (to), accommodate (oneself) (to), adjust (oneself) (to), adapt (oneself) (to), acclimatize or acclimate (oneself) (to), submit (oneself) (to): Knowing that no one had ever escaped from the prison, he resigned himself to his fate.
resilience n. rebound, recoil, bounce, elasticity, springiness, spring, buoyancy, flexibility, suppleness, ability to recover: The resilience of youth is astonishing, and William was soon on his feet again.
resistance n. 1 opposition, defiance, refusal, denial, obstruction, intransigence, rebelliousness, recalcitrance, stubbornness: The child puts up considerable resistance to any form of discipline. 2 defences: My resistance is low, I can deny you nothing. 3 Resistance. underground, partisans, freedom fighters, guerrilla or guerilla movement, guerrillas or guerillas, irregulars, Maquis, US resisters: During the war, he was a member of the Resistance and engaged in sabotage against the invaders.
resolute adj. resolved, determined, purposeful, steadfast, firm, stubborn, adamant, set, decided, staunch, bold, dogged, undaunted, dauntless, persevering, persisting, persistent, perseverant, pertinacious, tenacious, single-minded, dedicated, devoted, bulldog, purposive, deliberate, inflexible, unwavering, unshakeable or unshakable, unshaken, unflagging, untiring, indefatigable, tireless, unfaltering, unhesitating, unhesitant, unswerving, irreversible, undeviating, unchanging, changeless, unchangeable, immutable, unalterable: We remain resolute in our determination to end injustice.
resolve v. 1 determine, decide, make up one's mind, agree, undertake, settle, fix, conclude: When did you resolve to move to Australia? Let us resolve never to let this happen again. 2 work out, figure out, solve, clear up, answer: How have you resolved the problem of looking after the cats while you are away? 3 adopt, pass, approve, decide: It was resolved that membership fees should be raised. 4 resolve into. change into, convert into, alter into, transform into, transmute into, metamorphose into, be convert(ed) into, become, dissolve into, break down into, liquefy into, disintegrate into, reduce to or into: O, that this too too solid flesh would melt, Thaw, and resolve itself into a dew! --n. 5 See resolution, 1, above. 6 See resolution, 2, above: She kept her resolve never to marry again.
resort n. 1 spa, retreat, Chiefly Brit watering-place: We go to a lovely resort in the Alps every summer. 2 resource, backup, reserve, refuge, place to turn, alternative, remedy: He will see a doctor only as a last resort. --v. 3 resort to. have recourse to, turn to, look to, fall back on, repair to, take to, frequent, patronize, attend; visit, haunt, hang out in: I have to resort to father for a small loan. She was said to be resorting to the lowest dens in the Casbah.
resource n. 1 Often, resources. initiative, ingenuity, talent, inventiveness, imagination, imaginativeness, cleverness, quick-wittedness, capability, resourcefulness, aptitude, qualifications, strength, quality, forte, Colloq Brit gumption, Slang guts: Has he the inner resources for the job that lies ahead? 2 Often, resources. capital, assets, money, possessions, wealth, property, cash, funds: She has sufficient resources to retire at fifty if she wants to.
respect n. 1 regard, consideration, admiration, esteem, (high) opinion, appreciation: We have great respect for Samuel Simpson, our president. 2 regard, consideration, courtesy, politeness, civility, attentiveness, thoughtfulness, etiquette, deference, reverence, veneration: Few treat Alastair with the respect he deserves. 3 reference, relation, connection, comparison, regard, bearing: What are they planning to do with respect to the flooding? 4 detail, point, element, aspect, characteristic, feature, quality, trait, particular, matter, attribute, property: Describe the respects in which the War of American Independence and the French Revolution were similar. 5 respects. regards, good or best wishes, greetings, compliments, Formal salutations, Formal or archaic devoirs: I went to pay my respects to my aunt on her 90th birthday. --v. 6 consider, admire, esteem, honour, appreciate, value, defer to, pay homage to, think highly or well of, look up to, revere, reverence, venerate: I am not sure that I like Mrs Horne, but I certainly respect her for what she has done for the poor. 7 heed, obey, show consideration or regard for, pay attention to, attend to, be considerate or polite or courteous to, defer to: Children are no longer taught to respect their elders.
respectful adj. courteous, polite, well-mannered, well-behaved, mannerly, civil, cordial, gentlemanly, ladylike, gracious, obliging, accommodating, considerate, thoughtful: On entering, Captain Gregory made a respectful bow to the ladies.
respectively adv. separately, individually, singly, severally, mutatis mutandis, each to each: Ron and Daniel are, respectively, president and secretary of the association.
respond v. 1 answer, reply, come back, return, react, reciprocate, counter; rejoin, retort: When Sean insulted her, Una responded with a slap to his face. I said, 'Good morning!' and Adrian responded, 'What's good about it?' 2 Often, respond to. be responsive (to), react (to), empathize (with), sympathize (with), commiserate (with), feel for, pity, be affected or moved or touched (by): Many respond to those charity appeals for the crippled and disabled.
responsibility n. 1 accountability, liability, chargeability, answerability, obligation: Responsibility is one of the burdens a parent must undertake. 2 charge, duty, onus, burden, trust, job, role, task: Has Ted taken on more responsibilities than he can handle? It is your responsibility to see that the children are awakened in time for school. 3 blame, guilt, fault, culpability: Professor Davies assumed full responsibility for the failure of the experiment. 4 dependability, reliability, trustworthiness, stability, accountability, creditability: Before accommodating you with a loan, Mr Stokes, we must confirm your financial responsibility.
responsive adj. alert, alive, (wide-)awake, reactive, communicative, sharp, keen, receptive, sensitive, open, sympathetic: I was delighted to find students who were so responsive to the ideas put forth in my lectures.
rest n. 1 remainder, balance; remains, remnants, leftovers, residue, residuum, excess, surplus, overage: If you carry these bags, I'll take the rest. Martin bought up all the best books and left the rest for us. --v. 2 (continue to) be, remain, keep on being: Rest assured, the situation is bound to get easier as we go along.
restitution n. 1 amends, compensation, redress, recompense, remuneration, reparation, requital, indemnification, indemnity: It was agreed that victims of the raids were entitled to restitution for what had been taken from them. 2 restoration, return, re-establishment, reinstatement, recovery: A commission is to investigate the restitution of plundered property.
restless adj. restive, uneasy, edgy, on edge, on tenterhooks, fidgety, nervous, skittish, excitable, highly-strung, high-strung, worked up, agitated, fretful, jumpy, apprehensive, itchy, Colloq jittery, Slang uptight, US antsy, hyper: The crowd in the square were becoming restless as they waited for the speeches to start.
restore v. 1 give or hand back, return, make restitution, bring back: We must restore to the people the land that is rightfully theirs. 2 revive, rejuvenate, re-establish, renew, bring back, give (someone) back, resuscitate, resurrect, rekindle, reinvigorate, refresh, stimulate, revitalize, strengthen: Your kindness has restored my faith in mankind. 3 renovate, refurbish, renew, repair, rejuvenate, resurrect, revive, reconstruct, rehabilitate, rebuild; mend, fix, retouch, touch up; Colloq US fix up: They live in a 17th-century cottage that has been lovingly restored. Antiques often lose their value entirely if they are restored. 4 replace, reinstate, put back; return, bring back: They said that they would not rest until they had restored the rightful king on the throne. The doctor said she would soon be restored to good health. 5 replace, reimburse, repay, return, pay or put or give back: Even though he has restored all the money he took, she refuses to forgive him.
restraint n. 1 control, check, curb, rein, bridle, restriction, constraint, limit, limitation, curtailment, taboo, ban, interdict or interdiction, proscription, delimitation, bound(s), embargo: The law places restraints on executives' buying and selling shares in their own companies. In 1863, a bill for the restraint of the press was brought before the House of Commons. 2 control, restriction, constraint, confinement; bondage, bonds, fetters, shackles, handcuffs, gyves, bilboes, pinions, manacles, ball and chain, strait-jacket, Colloq cuffs, bracelets: Despite the restraints to his liberty, he felt a free man. He became violent and had to be put under restraint. 3 control, reserve, self-control, self-possession, poise, equanimity, self-discipline, self-restraint: Heather Gorse exhibited admirable restraint in remaining silent when teased her about her name.
restriction n. 1 condition, provision, proviso, qualification, stipulation: One restriction is that purchasers of shares in the utility must be resident in the UK. 2 See restraint, 1, above.
resume v. continue, carry on, take up again, pick up (where one left off): After prison, it is not easy to resume one's life where it left off. When the audience quieted, the speaker resumed.
resurgence n. renaissance, renascence, rebirth, revival, reawakening, restoration, renewal, resumption, return, resurrection, regeneration, rejuvenation, new dawn, new birth: Simone is banking her entire future on a resurgence of interest in seventies' fashion.
retain v. 1 keep (possession of), hold (on to), save, preserve, Colloq hang on to: Retain the receipt in case you wish to exchange the merchandise. 2 engage, hire, employ, commission, take on: We have retained a caretaker to look after the estate. 3 hold, absorb, contain, soak up, preserve: This type of soil retains little water. 4 remember, keep or bear or have in mind, recall, remain aware of, memorize, impress on the memory, recollect: As he aged, he found it increasingly difficult to retain even the simplest information such as names and dates.
retard v. 1 slow (down or up), hold up or back, set back, hinder, impede, delay, keep back, stall, thwart, balk, block, restrict, hold in check, frustrate, interfere with: Growth of the economy was severely retarded by the war. --n. 2 Offensive and derogatory idiot, moron, fool, imbecile, dunce, Slang chiefly US and Canadian jerk: Why she invites that retard to her parties I can't imagine.
retinue n. entourage, escort, convoy, cortge, company, train, suite, followers, attendants, following, hangers-on, Colloq groupies: The rock band arrived at the airport accompanied by a retinue of flunkeys.
retiring adj. shy, bashful, coy, demure, modest, diffident, timid, unpretentious, unassuming, humble, self-effacing, timorous, meek, reticent, reserved, unsocial, unsociable, aloof, removed, standoffish, distant, reclusive, eremitic(al): Howard is of a retiring disposition, preferring to keep to himself.
retouch v. touch up, correct, restore, repair, recondition, refresh, brush up, adjust, improve, finish, put the finishing touches on: Only an expert restorer could have retouched the damaged painting so skilfully.
retreat n. 1 retirement, withdrawal, pulling or falling or drawing back, giving ground, evacuation, flight: The regiment's retreat in the face of overwhelming odds is complete. 2 retirement, seclusion, withdrawal, isolation, solitude, rustication: Since her retreat from public life, she has devoted herself to painting. 3 sanctuary, sanctum (sanctorum), refuge, shelter, den, haven, asylum, resort, hideaway, hide-out: Antonia insisted on having her own retreat where she could occasionally escape from the children. --v. 4 withdraw, decamp, run (away), turn tail, depart, give or lose ground, pull or fall or draw back, retire, evacuate, flee, take flight: We must retreat to the shelter of the hills, where we can regroup. 5 ebb, draw or move back, recede: The waves, constantly advancing and retreating across the pebbly strand, lulled me to sleep.
retrieve v. 1 bring or get (back), fetch, come back with: Simon trained his dog to retrieve his slippers. 2 recover, save, rescue, take back, recoup, regain, reclaim: I tried using a fishing line to retrieve my hat from the lake. 3 make up, make amends for, recover, cover, redeem, repay, pay for, return, get back, regain, be repaid or reimbursed for: Will we be able to retrieve our losses when we sell the business?
return v. 1 come or go back, revert, turn back: She is returning to her old habits. I shall return to this subject later if I have time. 2 come back, reappear, resurface, crop up again, turn or show up again, put in an appearance again; recur, reoccur, Colloq pop up again: Will he return before March? The symptoms returned. 3 replace, put back, restore, give back, bring or carry back: The missing books have mysteriously been returned. 4 exchange, bring back or carry back: You may return any merchandise, for any reason, for refund or exchange, within ten days of its purchase. 5 yield, earn, gain, profit, benefit: Where else can you find a secure investment that returns more than 15 per cent? 6 deliver, render, give, offer, turn in, proffer, report: The jury returned a verdict of Not Guilty. --n. 7 recurrence, reappearance, repetition, renewal, recrudescence, resurfacing, re-emergence: There was a return of the symptoms when I stopped taking the medicine. 8 replacement, replacing, restoration, restoring, restitution: We shall see to the return of the stolen items to their rightful places. 9 Sometimes, returns. yield, earnings, profit, gain, benefit, income, revenue, proceeds, interest, takings, results: The return on my investment was almost 100 per cent! 10 arrival, advent, coming, home-coming: A small crowd had gathered to await his return. 11 reciprocity, reciprocation, repayment, recompense, reimbursement, compensation, payment, reparation, indemnity, indemnification, consideration, amends, redress, requital: If I give you my bike, what will I get in return?
reveal v. expose, display, divulge, disclose, show; make known, let on, let out, let it be known, let slip, communicate, give vent to, air, ventilate, leak (out): The increasing light of dawn revealed a no-man's-land of utter devastation. The book is said to reveal everything you would prefer not to know about factory-farming.
revelation n. news, information, proclamation, publication, bulletin, communiqu, announcement, pronouncement, declaration, statement, leak; admission, confession; discovery, unveiling, uncovering, exposure, disclosure, expos: We were shocked at the revelation that they had been married all these years. Scientists' revelations about the depletion of the ozone layer are causing widespread concern.
revenge n. 1 vengeance, retaliation, reprisal, retribution, vindictiveness, spitefulness, repayment, satisfaction: They think he set fire to the place in revenge for having been dismissed. --v. 2 avenge, get even for, take revenge for, make reprisal for, exact retribution or payment or repayment for: She was seeking ways to revenge the murder of her brother. 3 revenge oneself (on). settle a score or an old score (with), pay (someone) back in his or her own coin, give a Roland for an Oliver, give tit for tat, take an eye for an eye (and a tooth for a tooth), punish, Colloq get, get even (with), give (someone) his or her or their comeuppance, give (someone) a taste of his or her or their own medicine: He found ways to revenge himself on them for all that they had done to him.
revere v. adore, adulate, reverence, venerate, worship, idolize, enshrine, sanctify, beatify, glorify, esteem, admire, respect, honour: He was revered as the founding father of British psychology.
reverie n. day-dream, fantasy, brown study, wool-gathering, absent-mindedness; meditation, thought: I shouldn't disturb Kevin - he's deep in a reverie.
reverse adj. 1 opposite, contrary, inverse, converse; inverted, upside down, mirror, reversed, backward: Now try turning the wheel in the reverse direction. What appears on the retina is a reverse image, which the brain inverts. --v. 2 invert, overturn, turn upside down, turn topsy-turvy, turn over, up-end; exchange, change, interchange, transpose: Using your finger to keep the mercury from running out, reverse the tube in the dish of mercury. Perhaps the car will start if you reverse the leads to the battery. 3 overturn, overthrow, upset, set aside, quash, override, annul, nullify, vacate, abandon, revoke, negate, veto, declare null and void, disaffirm, invalidate, cancel, repeal, rescind, overrule, countermand, undo: The superior tribunal reversed the decision of the lower-court judge. 4 alter, change, modify; renounce, recant, take back: Reverse the polarity of the wiring. I reversed my opinion after hearing her sing. 5 back up, move or go backwards or US also backward, backtrack, Nautical make sternway: You will be in the right spot if you reverse a yard or two. --n. 6 opposite, contrary, converse, antithesis: Whatever she tells you, I suggest you do the reverse. 7 back, rear, wrong side, verso, underside; flip side, B-side; tail side: Read what it says on the reverse. 8 set-back, disappointment, misfortune, reversal, mishap, misadventure, trouble, problem, difficulty, vicissitude, adversity, defeat; disaster, catastrophe, dbacle, rout, Colloq washout: We suffered a temporary reverse or two in business, but we're all right now. United suffered a humiliating reverse against Wanderers in the cup last week.
review v. 1 survey, examine, regard, look at, study, con, consider, weigh, inspect, look over, scrutinize: Would you be good enough to review the work of the new employees? She is coming to review the troops this weekend. 2 re-examine, reconsider, go over again, look at or over again, reassess: Billings reviewed once more all the bad things he had done in his lifetime. 3 criticize, critique, assess, judge, evaluate, give one's opinion of, comment on or upon, discuss: Who reviewed your latest book? --n. 4 criticism, critique, review article, assessment, judgement, evaluation, commentary, study, comment, notice: The play received rave reviews from almost all the critics. 5 survey, examination, study, consideration, inspection, scrutiny, analysis; reviewing, reading: After a detailed review of the circumstances, we have decided to let you off easy this time, Finnegan. 6 re-examination, reconsideration, rehashing or rehash, post-mortem, reassessment, rethinking, rethink: Why do you always insist on a review of all the bidding on every hand, whenever we play bridge? 7 periodical, journal, magazine: Have you read Stonehouse's article in the latest Birmingham Review? 8 parade, procession, array, cavalcade, march past, fly-past or chiefly US flyover: A great naval review was held at Spithead.
revision n. editing, revising, emendation, improvement, correction, rectification, modification, revamping, reappraisal, re-examination, reinterpretation, reassessment, redaction, reworking, overhaul, overhauling, updating, update; rewrite, edition, version, rendition: Her revision of the text is based on a newly discovered manuscript. The fourth revision will be available next April.
revive v. 1 (re)awaken, wake (up), come or bring (a)round, waken, resuscitate; recover, (re)gain consciousness: Dashing cold water in his face revived him at once. I revived to find her leaning over me. 2 reawaken, stir up again, renew, resume, reopen, refresh: You can blame Andy for reviving the feud between our families. 3 bring back, reactivate, renew, resurrect, re-establish, resume, reopen, revitalize, breathe life into, reinvigorate, rejuvenate: Perhaps we ought to revive the practice of putting hooligans, vandals, and delinquents into stocks in the market square.
revolt n. 1 rebellion, revolution, uprising, mutiny, insurrection, coup d'tat, putsch, take-over: The council ordered the secret police to suppress the revolt. --v. 2 rebel, rise up, mutiny; protest, dissent: After years of oppression, the people revolted and deposed their leaders. 3 repel, offend, disgust, shock, horrify, repulse, nauseate, sicken: I was revolted by the poverty and sickness I saw in that country.
revolution n. 1 mutiny, revolt, rebellion, coup (d'tat), uprising, insurgency, insurrection, putsch, take-over, overthrow: If the government fails to ensure that the people have food, there will be a revolution. 2 upheaval, cataclysm, transformation, (drastic or radical or major) change, sea change, metamorphosis: Recent successes of capitalism have sparked a revolution in the political philosophies of communist nations. 3 rotation, turn, orbit, circuit, spin, lap, round, cycle, circle, gyration; wheel, whirl, pirouette: At each revolution of the gear (A ) , the ratchet (B ) moves one notch. The rapid revolutions of the ice-skater dissolved her into a blur of colour.
revolve v. 1 spin, turn, pivot, rotate, gyrate, whirl, twirl, reel, wheel, go (a)round, circle, cycle, orbit; swivel: As the earth revolves on its axis, the moon revolves round the earth. 2 turn, depend, pivot, rely: His decision to buy a new car revolves on his finances. 3 turn over (in one's mind), ponder, weigh, consider, meditate upon or on, think about, reflect upon or on, ruminate over or on, chew over, contemplate: I have been revolving in my mind your most attractive proposal, but I regret I must turn it down.
revulsion n. loathing, detestation, disgust, repugnance, abomination, abhorrence, aversion, hatred, antipathy, odium, execration: I cannot describe the revulsion I felt at seeing those elephants slaughtered for their ivory.
rewarding adj. satisfying, gratifying, worthwhile, enriching, enriched, fruitful, worthwhile; profitable, advantageous, productive, gainful: Laurence says that his most rewarding experience has been seeing his children again.
rhetoric n. 1 eloquence, expressiveness, elocution, way with words, Colloq gift of the gab: His rhetoric, though it defied analysis, exactly reflected the emotions of the Labour movement. 2 bombast, bluster, fustian, rodomontade, grandiloquence, magniloquence, oratory, windiness, high-flown poppycock, wordiness, sesquipedality, verbosity, prolixity, long-windedness, turgidity, flatulence, gasconade, Colloq hot air, puffery: Her threats are mere rhetoric and I refuse to take notice of them.
rhyme n. 1 rime, poem, poetry, verse, versification, metrical composition, song: The art of rhyme may well be coincident with the earliest stages of language. 2 rhyme or reason. (common) sense, logic, intelligence, meaning, wisdom, rationality, rationale, soundness, organization, structure: There appears to be no rhyme or reason behind the bombing of the library.
rhythmic adj. rhythmical, measured, cadenced, throbbing, pulsing, pulsating, regular, steady, beating: The rhythmic sound of the waves soon sent me to sleep.
rich adj. 1 wealthy, affluent, prosperous, well-to-do, well off, well provided for, opulent, moneyed, in clover, on velvet, Colloq flush, loaded, on Easy Street, rolling in it or money or wealth, in the chips or the dough or the money, well-heeled, US well-fixed: A year ago Montmorency was a rich man, but that was before Blue Thursday on the Stock Exchange. 2 Sometimes, rich in. abundant (in), overflowing (with), fertile (in), fecund (in), productive (of), copious (in), abounding in, well supplied (with), well stocked (with), rife (with), replete (with), profuse (in or with): The rich prairie land was soon yielding abundant harvests. The surrounding mountains were rich in minerals of all kinds. 3 valuable, precious, invaluable, priceless: For centuries the islanders have enjoyed the rich bounty of the seas. The thieves who broke into the vaults got a rich haul. 4 costly, expensive, dear, valuable, invaluable, precious, priceless, lavish, sumptuous, lush, luxurious, palatial, elaborate, splendid, exquisite, superb, elegant: The caravans returned laden with rich treasures of the Orient silks, jewels, spices, rare woods, and other luxuries. 5 intense, dark, deep, warm, vibrant, strong, lustrous: At the rajah's court the rich colours of the carpets and hangings dazzle the eye. 6 fat, fattening, heavy, creamy, succulent, savoury, mouth-watering, luscious, sapid, delicious: When Vicky complained that her sweet was too rich, Arthur ate hers, too. 7 mellow, mellifluous, resonant, sonorous, full: Edgar's rich basso filled the cavernous amphitheatre. 8 aromatic, ambrosial, savoury, fragrant, redolent, pungent, strong: The house was filled with the rich odour of freshly made coffee. 9 productive, plentiful, abundant, ample, bountiful, prolific, fruitful, fertile, fecund, copious, profitable, potent: The letters proved a rich source of intimate details about their private life. 10 laughable, funny, hilarious, comic(al), humorous, amusing, Colloq side-splitting: He had many rich anecdotes to relate about the practical jokes they used to play on one another. 11 ridiculous, preposterous, outlandish, ludicrous, absurd, nonsensical: One particularly rich episode involved a chimpanzee.
richly adv. 1 sumptuously, lavishly, luxuriously, splendidly, elaborately, exquisitely, elegantly, superbly: The flat was richly appointed with Chinese antiques, thick oriental carpets, and silk hangings. 2 well, thoroughly, amply, fully, appropriately, fittingly, condignly: Shirley's work was at last given the recognition it so richly deserved.
rid v. 1 rid of. deliver from, relieve of, free from or of, rescue, save: What can we do to rid ourselves of that appalling smell? --adj. 2 be or get rid of. banish, exile, eject, expel, dispose of, throw out or away, eliminate, dispense with; refuse, reject, dismiss, shrug off: If she had wanted to be rid of him, she would have divorced him long ago. I am having a spot of bother trying to get rid of my old car: nobody wants to buy it.
riddle n. conundrum, puzzle, enigma, poser, question, mystery, problem, brain-teaser or Brit brain-twister: The cracker contained a whistle, paper hat, and the inevitable riddle.
ride v. 1 sit on or in, travel or journey or go or proceed on or in, be borne or carried or conveyed (on or in), take; propel or control or drive (a horse or a bicycle or a motor cycle): They ride the bus to work each day. The film began with a witch riding a broomstick. Do you know how to ride a motor bike? 2 float, lie: The yacht is riding at anchor off Portsmouth. 3 tyrannize, terrorize, intimidate, dominate, oppress; bully, rag, harry, harass, hector, nag, provoke, heckle, badger, plague, pester, annoy, irritate, Colloq hassle: He has been ridden by obsessive ambition all his life. --n. 4 drive, journey, trip, excursion, tour, jaunt, outing, expedition, Colloq spin: Let's go for a ride in the country! 5 take for a ride. a delude, swindle, trick, deceive, defraud, humbug, defraud, gull, take in, cheat, bamboozle: Those tricksters with the loaded dice certainly took Charlie for a ride last night! b (kidnap and) murder or kill or execute or do in, Slang bump off, US (snatch and) rub out or waste: They said that if he identified them, they would take him for a ride.
ridicule n. 1 derision, deriding, jeer, jeering, taunt, taunting, mockery, mocking, gibe or jibe, gibing or jibing, raillery, Colloq ribbing, US and Canadian razzing, joshing: Nick was often subjected to ridicule because of his outlandish clothes. --v. 2 deride, jeer at, taunt, tease, mock, gibe or jibe, guy, chaff, laugh at, caricature, poke fun at, make fun or sport of, lampoon, burlesque, travesty, parody, make a laughing-stock (of), Colloq rib, roast, Brit send up, take the mickey out of, US and Canadian razz, josh: In a democracy, it is an inalienable right of the people to ridicule their leaders and government.
riff-raff n. rabble, hoi polloi, ragtag and bobtail, scum, canaille, masses, dregs (of society), Colloq great unwashed: I am shocked that you continue your membership in a club to which riff-raff like Trevor Barnes belong.
rift n. 1 separation, break, split, schism, cleft, gulf, gap; disagreement, conflict, disruption, difference, breach, break-up, division, distance, alienation: The continued bitterness served only to intensify the rift between them. 2 tear, rent, opening, hole, crack, chink, crevice, cleavage, fracture, flaw, fault: Water was pouring through an ever-widening rift in the dam.
right adj. 1 just, moral, good, proper, correct, legal, lawful, licit, honest, upright, righteous, virtuous, ethical, fair, true, honourable, right-minded, principled, open, above-board: There is no doubt in my mind that Simon can be relied on to do the right thing. 2 correct, fitting, suitable, proper, accurate, exact, precise, perfect; factual, truthful, veracious, valid, sound, Colloq Brit bang on, spot on: Have you bought the right kind of nail to go into plaster? Jennie had nine right answers out of ten. How many of yours are right? 3 propitious, convenient, strategic, advantageous, beneficial, favourable, auspicious, preferred, preferable, promising: It is critical for the mixture to reach the boiling point at exactly the right time. 4 sound, sane, normal, rational, lucid, healthy: Is she right in the head, letting him drive in his condition? 5 right-hand, dextral, dexter, Nautical starboard: In the United Kingdom, drivers sit on the right side. 6 rightist, right-wing, conservative, reactionary, Tory: The right wing of the liberal party is not so very different from the left wing of the conservatives. 7 face, upper, principal, front: Have you laid the tablecloth right side up? 8 utter, complete, perfect, unmitigated, unalloyed, out-and-out, thorough, thoroughgoing, 24-carat or esp. US 24-karat, dyed in the wool, pure, absolute, real, Brit proper: I've been a right idiot not to realize that he loved only her. --n. 9 privilege, prerogative, licence, power, claim, title, freedom, liberty: We must allow nothing to interfere with our democratic rights, such as our right to vote. 10 justice, reason, fact, truth, fairness, equity, good, goodness, integrity, virtue, virtuousness, honesty, honourableness, morality, propriety, rectitude, right-mindedness, high-mindedness, nobility, uprightness: He believes that he has right on his side. 11 right side or hand or fist, Nautical starboard: She stood on his right. She gave him a quick right to the jaw. 12 by rights. properly, fairly, justly, to be just, to be fair, in fairness, honestly, in all honesty, to be honest: By rights, because I paid for it, the house is mine. --adv. 13 directly, straight, straightaway, right away or off, in a beeline, as the crow flies, forthwith; unhesitatingly, immediately, promptly, at once, instantly, without hesitating or hesitation, without delay, quickly, swiftly, speedily, Colloq pronto, straight off: The minute he walked into the room, he went right to the wall-safe. Please come over right now. 14 exactly, precisely, unerringly, accurately; just: She hung the paintings right where they belonged. 15 just, only: I stopped right now - when you walked in. 16 well, satisfactorily, advantageously, profitably, favourably, opportunely: I hope that everything turns out right for you. 17 correctly, accurately, properly, precisely, well, sensibly, fittingly, suitably, aptly: If you can't do it right, why bother doing it at all! --v. 18 straighten (up or out), set upright or aright: I righted all the chairs the children had knocked over. 19 put or set or make right, put or set to rights, correct, straighten out, redress, amend, make up for, rectify, sort out, repair, fix: She has always felt that her mission in life was to right wrongs. 20 avenge, retaliate for, vindicate, repay, revenge, settle, Colloq get even for: Langdon swore that he would right the injury done to his father's name.
rightful adj. 1 legal, lawful, legitimate, licit, de jure, correct, proper, bona fide, valid, true, authorized, right: If the deed is in his name, then he is the rightful owner. 2 just, fair, equitable, right: Emily has supported rightful causes all her life.
rigmarole n. rigamarole, motions, complication(s), formalities, red tape, bureaucracy, punctilio, ceremoniousness, ceremony, ritual, procedure, mess, mumbo-jumbo, gobbledegook or gobbledygook, bunkum or buncombe, bother, balderdash, rubbish, nonsense, foolishness, Colloq hassle, bunk, Slang crap, US meshugaas or mishegaas: Why must one go through such a rigmarole just to get a driving licence?
rim n. edge, brim, lip, border, periphery, perimeter: To make a margarita, you first coat the rim of a cocktail glass with coarse salt.
ring n. 1 loop, hoop, band, circle, ringlet, circlet, annulus, grommet, eyelet, quoit, noose, cincture, belt, girdle, cestus or cestos, border, halo, aureole, nimbus, corona, cuff, collar, necklace, neckband, bandeau, fillet, bracelet, armlet, torque or torc, crown, coronet, tiara, diadem, (laurel-)wreath, garland, Mechanics gland, bearing, US and Canadian bushing or Brit also bush, washer, O-ring, Nautical thimble, Architecture and heraldry annulet, Literary roundlet, Anatomy cingulum: The rings brought up from the wreck of the ancient Greek trading vessel are worth a great deal. 2 rink, enclosure, arena, circus, bullring, Spanish plaza de toros, boxing ring: I would no sooner get into the ring with him than with a bull! 3 circle, organization, gang, band, pack, cell, team, crew, confederacy, confederation, combination, cartel, mob, bloc, coterie, set, clan, clique, fraternity, brotherhood, sorority, sisterhood, guild, (secret) society, junta or junto, cabal, faction, group, league, alliance, federation, coalition, union, affiliation, camorra, camarilla, Bund: She was running an international ring of jewel thieves who worked only in the most exclusive resorts. --v. 4 encircle, surround, bind, gird, girt, circle; loop, compass, envelop, encompass, embrace: The swimming-pool is ringed with dense shrubbery. After the vase is fired, I intend to ring the base with a gold band.
rinse v. 1 wash (out or off), wash up, clean, cleanse, bathe, drench, flood, flush, irrigate, Chiefly Brit swill (out), Literary lave: Use plenty of fresh water to rinse all the soap out of the clothes. 2 tint, dye, touch up, highlight: The hairdresser rinsed a little blue into Martine's greying hair. --n. 3 rinsing, wash, washing, bath, bathing, cleaning, cleansing, ablution, drenching, flood, flushing, irrigation, Medicine lavage, Literary laving: The softening agent should be added in the final rinse. 4 tint, dye: I had no idea that she used a rinse - I thought her hair was naturally reddish.
riotous adj. 1 tumultuous, unrestrained, wild, noisy, uncontrolled, uncontrollable, unmanageable, chaotic, disorderly, disordered, lawless, turbulent, violent, brawling, obstreperous: The headmaster warned that he would not tolerate such riotous behaviour. 2 rowdy, boisterous, unruly, uproarious, rollicking, roisterous, wild, rumbustious, unrestrained, uninhibited, Archaic robustious, Colloq rambunctious, no-holds-barred: Bernard's retirement party was certainly a riotous affair.
ripe adj. 1 mature, matured, seasoned, (fully) grown, (well-)ripened, developed, mellow, ready, fit, US (fully) aged, well-aged: The grapes are ripe for picking. 2 prepared, ready, fit, appropriate, experienced, veteran, seasoned, sage, wise, sophisticated, mature, informed, qualified, dependable, reliable: Henry is ripe in judgement and understanding. 3 ripe for. a timely, opportune, propitious, favourable, auspicious, ideal, right, suitable, apt, proper, suitably advanced: Is the time yet ripe for another revival of Heartbreak House ? b ready, eager, enthusiastic, prepared, fit, ready, in readiness: The mob is ripe for revolt.
rip-off n. 1 stealing, purloining, robbing, pilfering, taking, filching, pilferage, theft, robbery, larceny; shoplifting, Colloq pinching, Brit nicking, Slang lifting, swiping, US boosting: The rip-off of books from the library is a disgrace. 2 swindle, confidence trick, swindling, cheating, cheat, fraud, deception, defrauding, defalcation; embezzlement, Colloq con (job or trick): A husband-and-wife team are being sought for executing a rip-off of thousands from the Outland Bank using a forged letter of credit. 3 overcharging, exploitation, Colloq highway or chiefly Brit daylight robbery: It's a rip-off to charge two pounds for something that costs only three pence to make.
ripple n. 1 wavelet, wave, ruffle, ruffling, cat's-paw, purl, purling, undulation, US riffle, riffling: There wasn't even the slightest breath of air to cause a ripple on the mirror-like surface of the lake. 2 (slight) disturbance, upset, perturbation, agitation, flurry, flutter, suggestion, hint, soupon: The divorce occasioned only a ripple of dissent in the royal family. --v. 3 ruffle, purl, undulate, wave; splash, wash, US riffle: I sat musing, watching the water ripple over the stones in the brook.
risk n. 1 danger, peril, jeopardy, hazard, chance, gamble: I would take up skydiving, but my mother won't let me because of the risk. --v. 2 endanger, imperil, jeopardize, hazard, chance, gamble: Would you really risk all your money on one roll of the dice?
risqu adj. indelicate, unrefined, indecorous, indecent, improper, broad, naughty, spicy, salty, off colour, racy, bawdy, erotic, suggestive, wicked, blue, ribald, daring, salacious, gross, Colloq Brit near the knuckle: Some of those photographs of beauty contest queens are pretty risqu.
ritual adj. 1 ceremonial, ceremonious, sacramental: The celebrants undergo ritual washing before preparing the sacrifice. 2 procedural, formal, conventional, customary, habitual, routine, prescribed, usual, automatic, perfunctory: Each time they meet, Harold and Bill have to go through a ritual handshaking routine - a hangover from their school-days, I think. --n. 3 formality, routine, custom, practice, convention, protocol: If everyone goes through this tea-drinking ritual twice a day, how do you get any work done? 4 See rite, above.
rivalry n. competition, competitiveness, contention, vying; dispute, feud, feuding, conflict, struggle, strife, controversy, dissension, discord, difference(s): Once again the two local teams meet in a rivalry that has been traditional for over a century. It appeared unlikely that the rivalry between the brothers would be settled amicably.
riveting adj. spellbinding, engrossing, hypnotic, hypnotizing, transfixing, fascinating, enthralling, gripping, captivating, absorbing: The programme was absolutely riveting - one of the best I have ever seen.
roam v. wander, rove, ramble, range, walk, drift, dally, dawdle, cruise, stroll, amble, meander, saunter, stray, prowl, perambulate, travel, voyage, peregrinate, circumambulate, traipse, gallivant, jaunt, Colloq mosey, swan: They spent a year roaming about the continent, staying wherever they pleased. roar v. 1 bellow, thunder; howl, bawl, squall, cry, yell, yowl; bay, snarl, growl: A train roared by. The crowd roared appreciation. A lion roared once in the night. 2 laugh, guffaw, howl (with laughter), hoot: They fell about roaring when he told the joke about the egg and the taxi. --n. 3 roaring, bellow, thunder, rumble, boom; howl, bawl, squall, cry, yell, yowl, clamour, outcry; snarl, snarling, growl, growling: The roar of the falls could be heard miles away. There was a roar of indignation at the proposal. The beast's roar was enough to strike terror into our hearts. 4 guffaw, outburst, howl, hoot: Everything she said was met by a roar of laughter from the gallery.
robber n. thief, pickpocket, shoplifter, burglar, bandit, housebreaker, sneak-thief, cat burglar, safe-breaker, highwayman, gentleman of the road, brigand, pirate, freebooter, buccaneer, privateer, corsair, Colloq mugger, hold-up man, Slang cracksman, rip-off artist, safe-cracker, safe-blower, Chiefly US stick-up man, US second-story or second-storey man: The police were making every effort to catch the robbers.
robot n. 1 automaton, mechanical man or monster, android: In the future, much of the drudgery will be taken over by electronic robots. 2 drudge, clod, tool, puppet, cat's-paw, myrmidon, mechanical man, automaton: The company has a number of robots on its payroll who carry out orders without question.
rock n. 1 stone; boulder: In the avalanche, the rocks thoroughly destroyed the ski lodge. 2 crag, tor, escarpment, scarp, Brit outcrop, US outcropping: We used to go rock climbing when I had the strength. 3 on the rocks. a on ice: I'd like a whisky on the rocks, thanks. b in (a) shambles, destroyed, in ruins, ruined, finished, broken-down, beyond repair: He lost his job and his marriage went on the rocks. c destitute, poverty-stricken, indigent, penniless, bankrupt: Unable to find another job, he's been on the rocks for a year, now.
rocket v. zoom, take off, sky-rocket, shoot up, climb, rise rapidly, soar, spiral upwards, Colloq go through the roof: The day controls were lifted, prices rocketed, almost doubling overnight.
rocky adj. unstable, tottering, teetering, unsteady, shaky, rickety, unsure, uncertain, unreliable, weak, flimsy, wobbly, wobbling, vacillating, dubious, doubtful, questionable, Colloq iffy: The project will be very rocky till we are assured proper funding.
rogue n. 1 trickster, swindler, cheat, cad, ne'er-do-well, wastrel, good-for-nothing, miscreant, Rather old-fashioned scamp, scoundrel, blackguard, knave, rascal, rapscallion, scapegrace, dastard, cur, churl, wretch, villain, charlatan, mountebank, Brit bounder; Colloq louse, stinker, rat, creep, Brit rotter, blighter, Chiefly US and Canadian son of a gun, Slang bastard, Chiefly US and Canadian son of a bitch, SOB or sob, bum: She met some clever rogue in Capri who conned her out of fifteen thousand lire. --adj. 2 independent, undisciplined, uncontrollable, ungovernable, unmanageable, unpredictable, disobedient, incorrigible, fractious, self-willed, unruly, intractable, unrestrained, wild, lawless, strong-willed, headstrong, refractory, contumacious, recalcitrant, cross-grained, rampageous: Part of the village was destroyed when a rogue elephant ran amok. Perkins quit the company to start up his own rogue concern.
roll v. 1 rotate, cycle, turn (over (and over)), wheel, trundle; revolve, go (a)round, orbit, tumble, somersault or somerset or summersault or summerset: Th landlord rolled another barrel beer into the pub. The children loved rolling about in the ride at the fun fair. 2 pass, go, flow, slip, flit, glide, slide, move (on); expire, elapse, disappear, vanish, evaporate: The time certainly rolls by quickly when you're having fun. 3 move, drive, bowl, be carried or conveyed, cruise, sail, coast, ride, float, fly: We rolled down the road, singing and laughing. 4 undulate, billow, rise and fall: The countryside rolled away before us as far as the eye could see. 5 roar, echo, re-echo, rumble, reverberate, resound, sound, boom, peal, resonate, thunder: The roar of the explosion rolled over us as we ran for cover. 6 rob, steal from: They got their money by rolling drunks. 7 Often, roll out. flatten, level (off or out), smooth (out), even (out), grade: After cutting, the lawn ought to be rolled. 8 Usually, roll over. turn (over), rotate, spin: Roll onto your stomach so I can examine your back. 9 Usually, roll up. furl, coil, curl, wind (up), wrap (up); enwrap, swathe, enfold, envelop, shroud, enshroud: Every night he takes down the banner and carefully rolls it. Cleopatra was rolled up in a rug to be smuggled past the guards. 10 roll in. a arrive, come in, pour in, flow in, turn up, show up: The contributions really started to roll in after the appeal. b luxuriate in, revel in, wallow in, savour, bask in, delight in, take pleasure in, indulge in, rejoice in, relish: Basil has been rolling in unaccustomed wealth since his aunt died. 11 roll out. unroll, unfurl, spread (out), unfold, uncoil, uncurl, unwind, open (out): Roll out the bolt of cloth so that we can measure it. --n. 12 reel, spool, cylinder, scroll; tube: The message was written on a long roll of paper. 13 list, rota, register, record, directory, listing, roster, slate, docket, catalogue, inventory, muster, index, census, annal(s), schedule, chronicle(s), Sports line-up: With great ceremony, the clerk read the roll. 14 rolling, billowing, waving, wave action, wave, billow, swell, undulation, pitching, rocking, tossing: With each roll of the boat, I felt more seasick. 15 peal, rumble, reverberation, boom, echo, thunder, roar: A roll of thunder drowned out her shouts. 16 rotation, spin, toss, whirl, twirl: I decided to bet everything on one last roll of the dice. 17 bun; scone, croissant; Brit bread-roll, bap, split: Waiter, would you please bring some more rolls? 18 bankroll, money, wad, bundle: He took out a roll of notes and peeled off five twenties.
romance n. 1 (love) affair, amour, affair of the heart, affaire (de coeur or d'amour), liaison, relationship, dalliance, intrigue: Wasn't Rick the one from Canada with whom Diana had a romance? 2 (true) love: You are lucky if you find romance even once in your lifetime. 3 novel, narrative, fiction, story, mystery, thriller, horror story, ghost story, science fiction, fantasy, Western, melodrama, gothic or Gothic or Gothick novel or tale, (fairy) tale, love story, idyll, epic, legend: It is probably accurate to say that the romance is the most popular form of fiction. 4 sentiment, nostalgia, mystery, intrigue, fantasy, imagination, imaginativeness, adventure, excitement, fascination, exoticism, glamour, colour, colourfulness: It was the romance of Morocco that entranced me. 5 tall tale or story, fantasy, fabrication, fairy tale, exaggeration, prevarication, concoction, flight of fancy, fib, (white) lie, prevarication, balderdash, fiction, nonsense, imagination: That episode with the girl on the train that David told you about was all romance. --v. 6 make love to; woo, court: Steve has been romancing Maria ever since they met. 7 pander to, flatter, curry favour with, toady (up) to, Colloq butter up, soft-soap, Taboo slang brown-nose: The new restaurant is romancing neighbourhood office executives, and luring them in for business lunches.
room n. 1 space, area, scope, extent, allowance, latitude, elbow-room, range, leeway, margin: There is room for one more inside. 2 chamber, apartment, compartment, office, cell, cubicle: For years Pablo occupied a small room on the top floor. 3 rooms. quarters, lodgings, accommodation, flat, dwelling: We had rooms in an old house downtown. --v. 4 live, lodge, dwell, abide, reside, stay: Did you really room with the daughter of a prime minister?
root n. 1 base, basis, foundation, source, seat, cause, fountain-head, origin, fount, well-spring: Love of money is the root of all evil. 2 rootstock, rootstalk, tap root, rootlet; tuber; Technical radix, radicle, radicel, rhizome, rhizomorph: When transplanting seedlings, special care should be taken not to damage the roots. 3 root and branch. radically, completely, utterly, entirely, wholly, totally: The Romans sought to destroy Carthage root and branch. 4 roots. origins, heritage, family, lineage, house, antecedents, forefathers, foremothers, descent, genealogy, family tree, forebears, ancestors, predecessors, stock, pedigree; birthplace, motherland, fatherland, native land or country or soil, cradle: Carlotta spent years tracing her roots to ancient Rome. The roots of civilization first appeared in Mesopotamia. 5 take root. become set or established or settled, germinate, sprout, grow, develop, thrive, burgeon, flourish, spread: Good work habits should take root at an early age; then they will last a lifetime. --v. 6 plant, set, establish, found, fix, settle, embed or imbed; entrench, anchor: The cuttings failed to grow because they were not properly rooted. Hilary's fear of heights is rooted in a childhood fall from a tree. 7 root out. a Sometimes, root up. uproot, eradicate, eliminate, destroy, extirpate, exterminate: Any subversives in the organization must be rooted out. b find, uncover, discover, dig up or out, unearth, turn up, bring to light: The survey of accounts is aimed at rooting out customers who are slow in paying.
root v. Usually, root for. cheer (for), applaud (for); boost, support, encourage, urge on: I'm rooting for our side to win.
rope n. 1 line, cord, cable, hawser; strand, string: This rope is too light for mooring the boat. She wore a rope of baroque pearls. 2 the ropes. the routine, the procedure, one's way around, the ins and outs; the truth, the (real) situation; Colloq what's what, the score, Brit the gen: It didn't take her long to learn the ropes. --v. 3 tie, bind, lash, hitch, fasten, secure; tether, attach: Rope these two crates together. The horses were roped to the post. 4 rope in. attract, draw (in), tempt, entice, lure, persuade: They are going to use a lottery to rope the customers in to supporting our cause.
rostrum n. platform, stage, dais, podium, stand; pulpit; lectern, reading-stand: As the crowd hooted and booed, the speaker descended from the rostrum.
rot v. 1 decay, decompose, fester, spoil, go bad or off, be tainted, be ruined, mould, moulder, putrefy; corrode, rust, disintegrate, deteriorate, crumble or go or fall to pieces: When the power went off, all the food in the freezer rotted. The piers holding up the far end of the bridge have all rotted away. 2 waste away, wither away, languish, die, moulder, decline, deteriorate, degenerate, decay, atrophy: Despite repeated appeals for clemency, he's been rotting away in jail all these years. --n. 3 decay, decomposition, mould, putrefaction, putrescence, blight, corrosion, corruption, disintegration, deterioration: Once the rot has set in, the job of revitalization can be overwhelming. 4 (stuff and) nonsense, balderdash, rubbish, bunkum, tommy-rot, twaddle, drivel, hogwash, eyewash, trash, Colloq claptrap, bunk, boloney or boloney, bosh, malarkey, moonshine, poppycock, tosh, Slang crap, bull, codswallop, Brit (a load of (old)) cobblers, Taboo balls, bullshit: He knows nothing whatsoever about linguistics and is just talking a lot of rot.
rote n. 1 routine, ritual: He acquired a rote knowledge of the words, without knowing what they mean. 2 by rote. a by heart, from memory: He can recite the entire Prologue of Canterbury Tales by rote. b unthinkingly, automatically, mechanically: She learned the French dialogue by rote but doesn't understand a word of it.
rotund adj. 1 round(ed), circular, orbicular, globular, spherical: His rotund, cherubic little face simply invited a pinch of the cheek. 2 full, full-toned, deep, resonant, reverberant, reverberating, sonorous, rich, round, mellow; pear-shaped: They thrilled to hear the rotund notes issuing from Caruso's lips as he sang 'Vesti la Giubba'. 3 chubby, podgy or chiefly US pudgy, (pleasingly) plump, portly, tubby, heavy, fleshy, corpulent, stout, fat, obese, overweight, Colloq roly-poly: Jack's rotund figure was easily recognizable waddling up the street.
rough adj. 1 uneven, irregular, coarse, jagged, rugged, bumpy, lumpy, broken: The next mile or so we slogged over some very rough terrain. 2 agitated, turbulent, choppy, stormy, storm-tossed, tempestuous, roiled: We negotiated a very rough patch of water before sailing into the calm, sheltered bay. 3 brusque, bluff, curt, short, abrupt, unpleasant, churlish, discourteous, impolite, rough-spoken, ungracious, surly, disrespectful, rude, uncouth, loutish, unrefined, uncivil, uncivilized, uncultured, vulgar, unladylike, ungentlemanly, coarse, ill-mannered, ill-bred, inconsiderate: Ian can be a bit rough, I know, but underneath he is a true and loyal friend. 4 tough, rough-and-tumble, roughneck, rowdy: There are some very rough characters frequenting that pub. 5 harsh, violent, unfeeling, unjust, severe, cruel, tough, hard, brutal, extreme; ungentle: They were subjected to very rough treatment when being questioned by the police. 6 dirty, obscene, smutty, pornographic, vulgar, crude, raw, rude: After midnight they watch the rough shows beamed by satellite from Italy. 7 hard, tough, Spartan, difficult, arduous, laborious, rugged, unpleasant: It was pretty rough going with almost no money and all those expenses. 8 harsh, grating, cacophonous, discordant, jarring, strident, raucous, rasping, unmusical, inharmonious, gruff, husky: In acknowledgement he made a rough, growling noise. 9 unfinished, incomplete, uncompleted, imperfect, rudimentary, crude, rude, formless, unformed, raw, rough-and-ready, rough-hewn, roughcast, undeveloped, unshaped, unworked, unwrought, unprocessed, unrefined; uncut, unpolished; shapeless, unshaped, undressed: I only saw the sculpture in its rough state and cannot say how it looked when finished. The stones are rough, as they were when taken from the ground. 10 general, approximate, inexact, cursory, quick, hasty, sketchy, vague, hazy; foggy, Colloq ballpark: Can't you give me even a rough idea of how much you want for the house? 11 unfair, unjust, bad, tough; unlucky, unfortunate: We went through a spell of rough luck last year. This is a rough time for everyone. 12 See rotten, 5, above. --n. 13 rowdy, tough, hooligan, ruffian, thug, brawler, yahoo, Slang roughneck, Australian larrikin, US mug: Phil will get into trouble if he continues to associate with those roughs at the Lantern. 14 sketch, (rough) draft, mock-up, outline: Let me see roughs of the presentation before the meeting with the client. --v. 15 rough out or in. sketch, draft, mock-up, outline, mark out, trace, block out: Our escape plan was roughed out by Captain Gallagher. 16 rough up. beat (up), thrash, attack, batter, assault, pummel or pommel, lay on, knock about, belabour, lambaste, Colloq wallop: Some of the boys roughed him up a bit when they learned that he was an informer. --adv. 17 violently, savagely, brutally, brutishly: You'd best not mention Cassie or Henry might cut up rough.
roughly adv. 1 approximately, around; about, nearly: The British Museum is roughly in the same direction as Euston. It cost roughly two weeks' wages. Roughly two years later I saw her again. 2 harshly, unkindly, severely, sternly, unsympathetically, brutally, violently, savagely, inhumanly, mercilessly, unmercifully, ruthlessly, pitilessly, cruelly, heartlessly: The police were accused of dealing too roughly with those suspected of harming a fellow officer. 3 clumsily, rudely, crudely, awkwardly, primitively, inexpertly, amateurishly, maladroitly, heavy-handedly, ineptly, inefficiently, unskilfully, inartistically: This roughly hewn block of local granite is what the council paid a fortune for as 'sculpture'.
roundabout adj. 1 circuitous, circular, indirect, long: We had plenty of time so we came the more scenic, roundabout way. 2 devious, circuitous, evasive, indirect, oblique: If you wanted to borrow some money, asking me for tax advice was quite a roundabout way of asking. --n. 3 merry-go-round, carousel or carrousel, Old-fashioned or dialect whirligig: The children weren't the only ones who enjoyed themselves on the roundabout. 4 Brit mini-roundabout, US and Canadian rotary, traffic circle: When you come to the roundabout, turn right and keep going till you come to a traffic light.
rouse v. 1 arouse, call, waken, awaken, wake (up), get up, arise: I was roused from a deep slumber by a dog's barking. 2 stir (up), arouse, bestir, stimulate, inspirit, animate, invigorate, electrify, excite, provoke, prompt, goad, prod, galvanize, incite, whet, move, work up, fire up: Bruce's unquenchable enthusiasm roused many to become involved in the campaign.
rout n. 1 defeat, trouncing, ruin, overthrow, subjugation, vanquishment, dbcle, conquest, thrashing, drubbing, beating; dispersal, retreat, collapse; Colloq licking, hiding, US and Canadian shellacking: Owing to the government's overwhelming forces, there was a complete rout of the rebels. --v. 2 defeat, win (out) over, trounce, ruin, overthrow, bring down, subjugate, subdue, suppress, vanquish, conquer, overwhelm, overpower, put to rout or flight, worst, best, trample, overrun, thrash, trim, whip, drub, beat, crush, batter, smash, shatter, cut to pieces or ribbons or shreds, destroy, devastate, wipe out, eliminate, put down, seal the doom or the fate of, eradicate, obliterate, Colloq lick, wipe the floor with, polish off, knock off, Hyperbolic sports jargon pulverize, make mincemeat of, ride roughshod over, demolish, mangle, ravage, mutilate, flatten, squash, topple, lay waste, wreak havoc (up)on, ravage, massacre, murder, exterminate, annihilate, liquidate, smother, stifle, do away with, Slang clobber, do in, US skunk, Chiefly US and Canadian cream: Queens Park Rangers routed Manchester United 6-0.
routine n. 1 custom, habit, procedure, practice, method, schedule, plan, programme, formula, pattern, way, usage, wont, Colloq chiefly Brit drill: Chalmers has always been a stickler for routine. What's the routine here when you want to order a new chair? 2 act, piece, bit, performance, number, part, Colloq thing, shtick: The fat lady doesn't sing till after Joe Miller finishes his routine. --adj. 3 customary, habitual, usual, rote, accustomed,familiar, conventional, regular, ordinary, everyday; programmed, assigned, designated, scheduled: Her routine responsibilities include proofreading. 4 boring, tedious, tiresome, unimaginative, uninteresting; hackneyed, trite, stereotypic(al), clichd, run-of-the-mill, ordinary; unvaried, unvarying, unchanging, monotonous, uneventful, rote, automatic, mechanical, perfunctory: He has a routine job on the assembly line.
row n. line, rank, tier, bank, string, series, file: A row of trees serves as a wind-break along one side of the farm.
rowdy adj. 1 boisterous, uproarious, disorderly, noisy, loud, obstreperous, unruly: It only takes a couple of rowdy youths to start trouble at a match. --n. 2 ruffian, tough, hooligan, yahoo, brawler, lout, Brit lager lout, skinhead, Chiefly US and Canadian hoodlum, hood, Slang Brit bovver boy: The police arrested three of the rowdies involved in last night's fight.
royal adj. 1 queenly, kingly, queenlike, kinglike, regal, imperial, sovereign, princely, majestic: The Royal Family usually spend their summer holidays at Balmoral. The establishment proudly boasts royal patronage. 2 grand, splendid, stately, impressive, august, imposing, superior, superb, magnificent, majestic: She arrived at the ball in a royal coach drawn by six white horses. --n. 3 king, queen, prince, princess, duke, earl, duchess, viscount, viscountess, baron, baroness, noble, nobleman, noblewoman, peer: Her greatest ambition is to meet a royal in the flesh. 4 royals. royalty, nobility, nobles, peerage: He writes the daily column reporting on the activities of the royals.
rubberneck v. 1 gape, stare, goggle, gawk: They spent a weekend in New York, rubbernecking at the skyscrapers. --n. 2 tourist, sightseer, rubbernecker, US out-of-towner: Buses for the rubbernecks leave Trafalgar Square every hour or so.
rude adj. 1 impolite, discourteous, disrespectful, ungracious, ungallant, unmannerly, ill-mannered, uncivil, bad-mannered, ungentlemanly, unladylike, ill-bred, unrefined, unpolished, uncouth, boorish, churlish, oafish, loutish, coarse, uncivilized, uncultured, unceremonious: It was rude of him not to get up when she came in, but he doesn't know any better. 2 impertinent, impudent, discourteous, insulting, insolent, offensive, saucy, bold, disrespectful, uncivil, flippant, brusque, curt, gruff, tactless, outrageous, Colloq fresh: I simply asked the chambermaid to make up my room early and she responded with a rude remark. 3 naughty, unrefined, ribald, bawdy, indecent, indelicate, vulgar, obscene, dirty, filthy, lubricious or lubricous, lewd, gross, smutty, taboo, pornographic: Chris has an extensive collection of rude photographs. 4 crude, rough, clumsy, awkward, unskilful, unskilled, artless, inartistic, imperfect, unpolished, inaccurate, gauche, bumbling, raw, inelegant, makeshift, homespun, primitive, misshapen, ill-formed, unfinished, rough-hewn, simple, basic, bare: The replica on view in the local museum is only a rude approximation of the original.
rudiments n.pl. basics, elements, essentials, fundamentals, first principles: She learnt the rudiments of musical composition from the maestro himself.
rugged adj. 1 rough, uneven, broken, stony, rocky, irregular, bumpy, pitted, jagged, ragged: The horses picked their way slowly across the rugged terrain. 2 tough, rough, severe, hard, harsh, difficult, arduous, Spartan, rigorous, onerous, stern, demanding, burdensome: It is amazing how that small band of pioneers withstood the rugged life in the untamed West. 3 hardy, durable, strong, sturdy, hale, robust, tough, vigorous, hard, rough-and-ready, stalwart; independent, individualistic, self-reliant, self-confident, self-sufficient, bold: WANTED: Five rugged pioneering types to join an expedition to the source of the Amazon river. 4 rude, uncouth, uncultured, uncivilized, unrefined, unpolished, crude, ungraceful, churlish: I admit that Charlie's manners are a bit rugged, but he's one of the best men we have.
ruinous adj. disastrous, destructive, catastrophic, calamitous, deleterious, pernicious, crippling, cataclysmic, baleful, fatal, toxic, poisonous, noxious, harmful, injurious, nasty, Archaic baneful: Smoking can be ruinous to your health. Who was behind the ruinous decision to move the factory to the north-east?
rummage v. 1 search, hunt, comb, scour, scrabble, look through, sift through, turn inside out or upside down, examine, Colloq scrounge: We rummaged about in four dustbins before finding the discarded receipt. --n. 2 jumble, miscellanea, knick-knacks, odds and ends, hotchpotch or US also hodgepodge: May we borrow your car to collect items for the church rummage sale?
rumple v. Sometimes, rumple up. wrinkle, crumple, crush, crease, fold, crinkle, dishevel, ruffle, tousle, scrunch (up), pucker, muss (up), mess (up): When she stood up, the back of her dress was all rumpled.
run v. 1 sprint, race, scamper, scurry, scud, dart, bolt, dash, flit, tear (along), scoot, scuttle, zip, whiz or whizz, gallop, jog, trot, lope; rush, hurry (up), hasten, scramble, hustle, step lively, hop (to) it, step on it, put on some speed, Archaic hie, Colloq get a move on, hoof it, leg it, hotfoot (it), stir one's stumps, Brit hare, US step on the gas, hump (it), Slang get cracking, US get the lead out (of one's pants or taboo ass), Chiefly US get a wiggle on: If you run, you might catch her before she gets on the train. 2 run away or off, flee, escape, take flight, take to one's heels, bolt, decamp, make off, clear out, show a clean pair of heels, abscond, cut and run, (beat a (hasty)) retreat, retire, make a getaway, (make a) run for it, Colloq beat it, scram, skedaddle, take off, skip (out), take French leave, fly the coop, Slang head for the hills, Brit scarper, do a bunk, US and Canadian take a (run-out) powder, lam out of (somewhere), take it or go on the lam, US vamoose: The minute the enemy appeared, the entire troop ran. Cavendish ran, hoping the police wouldn't catch him. 3 go, cover, pass over, sprint, race: He ran the mile in just under four minutes. 4 wander, rove, roam, meander, drift: Some farmers allow their animals to run free, rather than penning them up. 5 Often, run for. compete (for), be a candidate (for), vie, struggle, contend, fight (for), stand (for): As she has already said she would not stand again, I doubt that she will run for re-election in the council elections. 6 pass, flow, pour, stream, flood, gush, spill, dribble, spurt, issue, move, trickle, seep, discharge, cascade, spout: You can see where the rainwater has run down this crack in the roof and into the room below. 7 flow, diffuse: The colour ran when he washed his red underwear with some white shirts in very hot water. 8 melt, liquefy, dissolve, fuse: It was so hot that the icing on top of the cake began to melt and run down the sides. 9 keep, maintain, support, sustain, manage: It is very expensive to run a large house. 10 operate, manage, direct, supervise, oversee, conduct, superintend, control, handle, manipulate, head, carry on, lead, regulate, take care of, look after, administer, be in charge of, coordinate: She must be a terrifically high achiever to run a huge international conglomerate like that! 11 operate, perform, function, work, tick, go: Even after all that abuse, the watch kept running and kept good time. 12 extend, stretch, reach; amount, add up, total up, come (up): The balance of payments deficit is running to twice last year's figure. His bill at the restaurant last night ran to more than 200. 13 convey, transport, give (someone) a lift, drive, take, bring: Tom said he would run me home in his new car. 14 bootleg, smuggle, deal or traffic in, Chiefly US and Canadian rustle: During Prohibition, his father ran whisky from Canada to the US. 15 be in effect or force, be effective, have force or effect: This lease has another year to run. 16 incur, invite, encourage, attract, be subjected to: Aren't you running a risk asking Sheila to handle your money? 17 propel, drive; steer, guide, navigate: If you are inept enough to run a boat aground, at least have the sense to do it at low tide. 18 unravel, come undone, Chiefly Brit ladder: My stocking ran just before I had to leave for the dance! 19 Sometimes, run off. print, offset, lithograph, reproduce, publish, display; imprint, position, place, locate, lay out: They are going to run his story in the next issue of The Londoner! We'll run the photographs of the fire alongside the article on page one. 20 run across. meet (up with), run into, come across, find, stumble on or upon, hit or chance or happen upon, Colloq bump into: Guess whom I ran across at Harrods yesterday. 21 run after. chase, pursue, go after, court, woo, Colloq set one's cap for: The City is filled with young men and women running after big money. Mick is running after this girl half his age, and he hasn't a clue that she's leading him on. 22 run along. go away, leave, Slang get lost: Sue wanted to get rid of Wayne and told him to run along. 23 run around. philander, be unfaithful, gallivant, Colloq sleep around, play the field: How does she cope with his constant running around? 24 run around with. associate with, spend time with, dally with, consort with: Cynthia is running around with a bad crowd these days. 25 run away. See 2, above. 26 run down. a trace, track, hunt, stalk, follow, pursue, dog, shadow; find, locate, track down, discover: We ran down the suspect in an abandoned barn in Little Fakenham. b criticize, decry, defame, vilify, disparage, deprecate, depreciate, denigrate, Colloq knock, pan: If you keep running him down like that he'll develop an inferiority complex before he's seven. c weaken, tire, expire, play (itself) out, burn out, run out, fail, Colloq peter out: Once the batteries have run down, we will no longer be able to transmit a distress-signal. d strike, hit, smash or crash or slam into, run over, knock over or down, collide with: On the way home, he almost ran down a boy on a bicycle. 27 run in. arrest, take into custody, jail, apprehend, take or bring in, Colloq pinch, nab, pull in, bust, collar, Brit nick: This is the third time this week that Minette has been run in for soliciting. 28 run into. See 20, above. 29 run off. a See 2, above. b duplicate, print, copy, turn out, produce, make, manufacture, generate, Colloq do, churn out: How quickly can you run off 1000 copies of this brochure? 30 run out. a be exhausted, expire, terminate, (come or draw to a) close, end, cease: The time for renewing your subscription has run out. b finish, go, be exhausted, be used up, Colloq peter out: The food had run out and we had no water when we were rescued. 31 run out of. use up, consume, eat up, exhaust, be out of: We've run out of milk - can you nip down to the shop and get some? 32 run out on. desert, abandon, leave high and dry, forsake, leave in the lurch, leave holding the baby: Despite all his promises, Edgar ran out on her when she became pregnant. 33 run over. a See 26 (d), above. b scan, run through, go over, look over, flip or leaf or thumb through, look at, skim (through), browse through, dip into, review: I promised Casey I would run over his article if I had the time. c overflow, spill (over), brim over, slosh over, pour over; extend, reach, spread over, stretch over; exceed, go beyond, overreach, overshoot, surpass, transcend: She accidentally let the bath run over, ruining the ceiling below. This article will run over onto the next page. McClelland always runs over the time allotted to his part of the proceedings. d rehearse, run through, repeat, practise, review, go over, study, learn, memorize: You'd best run over your speech again before the banquet. 34 run through. a pierce, stab, transfix, stick, spit: In the last scene, the hero runs the villain through with his sword before succumbing to his own wounds. b squander, consume, use up, waste, fritter away, exhaust, deplete, spend, dissipate, throw away, Slang blow: It didn't take Hugh more than a year to run through his inheritance. c See 33 (b), above. --n. 35 sprint, dash, race, jog, trot: They go for a two-mile run every morning before breakfast. 36 trip, journey, visit, drive, expedition, trek, outing, excursion, jaunt, junket, sojourn, Colloq spin, joyride: He has to make a run over to Paris for the weekend, supposedly on business. 37 route, routine, circuit, passage, trip, cycle, round; beat: I was on the Murmansk run during the war. 38 period, spate, interval, time, spell, stretch, course; engagement, booking, Colloq patch: Roger has had a run of bad luck and could use some help. The show had a long run on Broadway. 39 access, freedom, liberty: The children had the run of the house for a week while their parents were away. 40 return, satisfaction, reward, recompense, compensation, requital, expiation, atonement, repayment, remuneration: Although the odds are never in your favour, you get a good run for your money at Diamond Lil's Gambling Emporium. 41 series, sequence, stream, spate, string, succession, progression: Will attributed his poor showing at the tournament to a bad run of cards. 42 stream, brook, runnel, creek, rill, rivulet, Brit beck, Scots burn, US branch, kill: There is a small run at the bottom of the hill. 43 demand, call, request: Bouillon cubes seem to have enjoyed quite a run lately. 44 type, category, class, kind, sort: Mark seems to be a bit more refined than the usual run of guest at Lisa's parties. 45 trail, track, piste, path, slope; way, runway: She skied down the north run in record time. 46 enclosure, yard, pen, compound, runway; paddock; pound: There is a good-sized run at the kennel where we board the dogs when we go on holiday. 47 Music roulade, cadenza, arpeggio, riff: The soprano treated us to a marvellous run in which each note was distinct and pure. 48 in the long run. eventually, finally, after all, ultimately, in (due) time, in due course, in fine, in the end, at the end of the day, in the final analysis, all things considered, when all is said and done: Regardless of early troubles, things always seem to turn out all right in the long run in his plays. 49 on the run. a hastily, in haste, hurriedly, while under way, in a hurry, at speed, in a rush: It isn't supposed to be good for you to eat breakfast on the run every day. b on the loose, fleeing, escaping, running, in flight, running (away), Slang US on the lam: He was on the run from the police and desperate to find Duncan. c running, retreating, on the move or the go: They kept the enemy on the run for a week. 50 the runs. diarrhoea, dysentery, upset stomach, Jocular tummy rot, Delhi belly, Aztec hop, turista or tourista, Mexican foxtrot or two-step or toothache, Montezuma's revenge, curse of Montezuma, Rangoon runs, Tokyo trots, Lambeth run(s): I came down with the runs when we got to Ankara.
runaway n. 1 fugitive, escapee, refugee, deserter, truant, absconder: The lad is a notorious runaway who has escaped four times before. --adj. 2 wild, uncontrolled, unchecked, rampant, renegade, unsuppressed; driverless, riderless, loose; escaped: Runaway inflation is ruining the economy of the country. The runaway horses were finally brought back. 3 easy, effortless, overwhelming, uncontested: The incumbent enjoyed a runaway victory in yesterday's election.
run-in n. disagreement, argument, dispute, altercation, quarrel, confrontation, contretemps: We had a run-in with our neighbour about playing his hi-fi too loud.
running n. 1 operation, management, direction: Who attends to the everyday running of the business while you are away? 2 competition, contest, meet, tournament, race, match; event, game: If he is found to take steroids, he'll be out of the running. --adj. 3 continuous, on-going, continual, perpetual, sustained, constant, uninterrupted, ceaseless, unceasing: Where do they get the energy to keep up a running argument on the same silly subject?
run-through n. 1 rehearsal, practice, trial, test: Let's have one more run-through before tomorrow's dress rehearsal. 2 See run-down, above.
rural adj. 1 country, pastoral, sylvan, bucolic, rustic, Arcadian, exurban; agricultural, agrarian, Literary georgic: They always preferred rural life to life in the city. Constable painted mainly rural scenes. He sells farm equipment, strictly a rural business. 2 See rustic, 2, below.
rush v. 1 hurry (up), hasten, run, race, hustle, bustle, make haste, dash, speed, scurry, scramble, scoot, jump, sprint, scamper, scuttle, Colloq move (it), hotfoot (it), skedaddle, step on it, make it snappy, US hightail (it), step on the gas , Slang get moving, get cracking, get a wiggle on, go like a bat out of hell, shake a leg: If you want the job, you'll have to rush to send in your application. Don't rush - there's plenty for everyone. 2 attack, assault, charge, storm, blitz: If we rush them, we might take them by surprise. --n. 3 hurry, haste, hustle, bustle, dash, speed, turmoil, turbulence, flurry, commotion, ferment, pother, ado, to-do, excitement, pell-mell, harum-scarum: What's the rush? 4 surge, sensation, thrill, charge: I felt a rush of pleasure when I saw her coming down the street. --adj. 5 urgent, hurry-up, exigent, high-priority, top-priority, emergency: This is a rush job that must be completed today.
rustle v. 1 whisper, swish, sibilate, susurrate: Outside my window, the leaves rustled in the evening breeze. --n. 2 whisper, whispering, rustling, swish, swishing, sibilation, sibilance, susurration, susurrus: I heard the faint rustle of satin and knew she was listening at the door.
ruthless adj. pitiless, unpitying, cruel, unsympathetic, merciless, unmerciful, harsh, fierce, remorseless, uncompassionate, vicious, savage, ferocious, hard-hearted, callous, unfeeling, tough, severe, heartless, inhuman, brutal, brutish, unrelenting, relentless, Chiefly US and Canadian mean: The jail houses some of the country's most ruthless criminals. In all of history there was no more ruthless a tyrant. sabotage n. 1 destruction, damage, wrecking, impairment: Enemy infiltrators were responsible for the sabotage of our radar. 2 subversion, treachery, treason: When the radar was found damaged, sabotage was suspected. --v. 3 undermine, subvert, disrupt, spoil, ruin, cripple; damage, incapacitate, disable, destroy, wreck, Colloq Brit throw a spanner in(to) the works, US throw a monkey wrench into the machinery, Slang Brit queer (someone's pitch): Only someone who had something to lose would have sabotaged our plan for reorganization. The engine had been sabotaged by pouring sand into the fuel tank.
sacred adj. 1 consecrated, dedicated, hallowed, holy, blessed, blest, sanctified, revered, divine, awe-inspiring, venerable, venerated, sainted, heaven-sent: This is a most sacred Islamic site. 2 inviolable, inviolate, untouchable, protected, sacrosanct: They held nothing sacred as they ransacked the temple. 3 religious, spiritual, ceremonial, church(ly), ecclesiastical, priestly, hieratic, ritual, solemn, sacramental, liturgical: He continued to carry out his sacred duties despite the war.
sacrificial adj. 1 sacrificed, immolated, surrendered, given up, yielded: They led the sacrificial lamb to the slaughter. 2 atoning, expiatory, propitiatory, conciliatory: The solemn sacrificial ceremonies were carried out by the high priestess.
sacrilegious adj. profane, impious, heretical, blasphemous, irreverent, disrespectful: The inscription contains a curse on any who perpetrate any sacrilegious act against the remains of the pharaoh.
sadden v. depress, deject, sorrow, dishearten, distress, dispirit, discourage, grieve, aggrieve: It saddens me to think of all the starving people.
sadly adv. 1 unfortunately, alas, unhappily, unluckily, lamentably, regrettably, deplorably, sad to relate: Sadly, all our oldest oaks were uprooted in the hurricane. 2 unhappily, gloomily, morosely, mournfully, despondently, miserably, wretchedly, dejectedly, dismally, sombrely, lugubriously: He told me sadly that he did not expect to return to England again.
safe adj. 1 unharmed, whole, uninjured, unhurt, (safe and) sound, secure, protected, shielded, sheltered, out of harm's way, all right, Colloq OK or okay: You'll be safe here with me. 2 harmless, non-toxic, non-poisonous, innocuous; unpolluted: This medication is safe if you do not exceed the recommended dosage. Is the water safe to drink? 3 sure, secure, sound, protected, risk-free, riskless, safe as the Bank of England, reliable, dependable, solid, bona fide, conservative, tried and true, Brit safe as houses: It was previously thought that an investment in Alfordyce Ltd was safe. 4 all right, allowable, permissible, acceptable, satisfactory, appropriate, suitable, timely, right, correct, proper, justifiable, justified, Colloq OK or okay: Is it safe to come out now? 5 secured, protected: The children are safe in bed. Your secret is safe with me. --adv. 6 safely, securely: I won't breathe easy till he's safe behind bars. --n. 7 vault, crypt, strongbox, safe-deposit or safety-deposit box, coffer, chest, repository: The necklace is kept in the safe and I never get a chance to wear it.
safe keeping n. charge, protection, keeping, custody, care, guardianship: The deed to the house is in the safe keeping of Mr Williams, my solicitor.
sag v. 1 droop, sink, slump, bend, dip; swag, bag: The board sagged precariously under his weight. Without a breath stirring, the banners sagged in the humid air. 2 drop, decrease, decline, go or come down, fall, slide, slip, weaken, slump, descend, diminish, lessen, droop, subside, flag, falter, wilt: The value of the dollar sagged in world markets today. --n. 3 sagging, drop, droop, sinking, sinkage, subsidence, dip; reduction, decrease, decline, fall, slide, weakening, slump, lessening, flagging, faltering: If you stand over here you can see a definite sag in the roof. The sag in profits was attributed to a poor response to the new model.
sail v. 1 navigate, pilot, steer: Sail as close to the shore as possible to avoid the whirlpool. 2 go sailing or boating or yachting, cruise, set sail, put (out) to sea: Would you like to sail to the Isle of Wight for the weekend? 3 drift, move lightly, breeze, flow, waft, sweep, coast, float, scud, glide, slide, slip, plane, skim, fly, flit: It was delightful to watch the tiny boats sailing, tacking, beating, and running in the brisk wind. --n. 4 canvas: The schooner was carrying all the sail she could.
saintly adj. holy, blessed, blest, beatific, godly, sainted, angelic, seraphic, pure, righteous, virtuous, blameless: Donald was such a saintly man, it was impossible to think ill of him.
salary n. income, pay, earnings, compensation, remuneration, emolument; wage(s): I can't afford a new car on my present salary.
salesperson n. salesman, saleswoman, saleslady, salesgirl, sales-clerk, clerk, Chiefly Brit shop-girl, Brit shop assistant, Old-fashioned counter-jumper: The shop is noted for its wide range of merchandise and the efficiency and courtesy of its salespeople.
salt n. 1 common or table salt, sodium chloride, sea salt, rock-salt: A little salt will bring out the flavour. 2 spice, spiciness, zest, zestiness, pungency, vigour, vitality, liveliness, pep, pepper, poignancy, piquancy, relish, bite, savour, seasoning, taste, Colloq zip, zing, punch: Yes, do invite Randolph, for he can be relied on to add a little salt to the dinner conversation. 3 (Attic) wit, Attic salt, dry humour, sarcasm: Her conversation is sprinkled with the salt of clever aphorisms. 4 See sailor, above. 5 with a grain or pinch of salt. cum grano salis, warily, cautiously, qualifiedly, qualifyingly, doubtfully, sceptically, suspiciously, reservedly, with reservation(s) or qualification(s): You have to take what he says with a grain of salt. --v. 6 season, spice, flavour, pepper: The pirate's speech was salted with expressions like 'Shiver me timbers!', 'Avast there!', and 'Blow me down!' 7 pickle, cure, preserve, corn, marinate, souse: The book gives several recipes for curing ham and salting beef. 8 salt away. save (up), hoard, put or lay or set by or aside, squirrel away, store up, stockpile, amass, accumulate, pile up, Colloq stash away, US and Canadian sock away: They were always terribly stingy, claiming they were salting something away for their old age. --adj. 9 salty, saline, brackish, briny: The water had a salt taste. 10 pickled, kippered, marinated, soused; corned; cured: Do you like salt herring?
salvage v. 1 save, recover, rescue, redeem, deliver, retrieve, reclaim: Were you able to salvage anything of value after the fire? --n. 2 recovery, rescue, retrieval, redemption, deliverance, reclamation, salvation: The salvage of a vessel or cargo at sea invests the salvager with legal rights under certain conditions.
same adj. 1 identical, exact (same), selfsame; very: When I said they were wearing the same dress I meant that they were wearing identical dresses. That's the same tie you wore when we first met. 2 unchanged, unchanging, changeless, unmodified, unaltered, constant, uniform, unvaried, unvarying; word-for-word, verbatim: As you can see, it's the same old Charley you used to know and love. Professor Spicer is still giving the same lecture that he has given all these years. 3 all the same. at the same time, nevertheless, nonetheless, even so, yet, but, anyway, anyhow, in any case, in any event, at any rate, regardless, still (and all), in spite of or despite the fact, notwithstanding, for all that, that (having been) said, having said that, after all is said and done, just the same: Of course you have a right to go; all the same, I wish you had let me know.
sanatorium n. rest-home, convalescent home, nursing home, clinic, health farm, US also sanitarium: After spending a month recuperating in a Swiss sanatorium, Gladys was as good as new.
sanctimonious adj. hypocritical, self-righteous, canting, mealy-mouthed, holier-than-thou, Pharisaical, pietistic, unctuous, Tartuffian, Colloq goody-goody, Chiefly Brit smarmy Slang Brit pi: I wondered what happened to all that sanctimonious talk about putting his family first?
sanctity n. piety, holiness, saintliness, divinity, grace, sacredness, godliness, devotion, dedication: The arguments of the anti-abortionists were based on a belief in the sanctity of all human life.
sanctum n. 1 sanctuary, holy of holies, shrine: No one is allowed into the sanctum except the high priestess. 2 sanctum sanctorum, den, study, retreat; hiding-place, hide-out, hideaway, cubby-hole: After dinner Roger goes to his sanctum to write.
sang-froid n. cold-bloodedness, coolness, cool-headedness, indifference, composure, phlegm, self-possession, self-control, poise, imperturbability, equanimity, Colloq unflappability, cool, coolth: What amazed us was the remarkable sang-froid displayed by even the smallest children in the face of bullying.
sanguine adj. optimistic, rosy, confident, hopeful, forward-looking, anticipatory, expectant, enthusiastic, fervid, zealous: Some experts took a more sanguine view, saying that they expected to see the start of an economic upturn in the next few months.
sanity n. saneness, reason, mental health or soundness, normality, rationality, reason, reasonableness, stability, balance: Have you any reason for suspecting her sanity?
sap v. undermine, sabotage, weaken, cripple, wreck, devitalize, deplete, drain, erode, enervate, debilitate: They did everything they could to sap my self-confidence.
sarcastic adj. scornful, contumelious, derisive, derisory, ridiculing, bitter, biting, cutting, trenchant, incisive, acrimonious, acerbic, acid, acidic, acidulous, harsh, acrid, aspersive, venomous, poisonous, virulent, spiteful, malicious, malefic, malevolent, satiric(al), ironic(al), cynical, disdainful, mocking, contemptuous, critical, censorious, captious, carping, cavilling, sardonic, scathing, caustic, nasty: I don't think he knows how hurtful his sarcastic remarks can be.
satanic adj. 1 diabolic(al), fiendish, devilish, Mephistophelian, demonic, demoniac(al), infernal, cacodemonic, ghoulish, hellish, infernal, evil, wicked, iniquitous, corrupt, depraved, perverted, perverse, godless, ungodly, impious, unholy, sinister, dark, black, immoral, amoral: They practise witchcraft and other satanic inventions. 2 dire, monstrous, heinous, atrocious, hideous, horrible, horrendous, horrid, horrifying, loathsome, vile, abhorrent, unspeakable, unutterable, damnable, despicable, abominable: The miners worked under positively satanic conditions.
satiate v. 1 stuff, glut, gorge, cloy, surfeit, overfill, overstuff, glut, pall, overindulge, saturate, choke, deluge, flood, choke, suffocate, weary, exhaust, bore, tire, jade: The travellers were so satiated with food and drink that nothing could wake them. 2 slake, satisfy, quench, content, gratify, sate: I felt the it would take at least a gallon of water to satiate my thirst.
satire n. 1 ridicule, irony, sarcasm, mockery, spoofing, exaggeration, caricature: Often, the best way to comment on a distasteful political situation is through satire. 2 burlesque, lampoon, parody, travesty, pasquinade, spoof, cartoon, caricature, Colloq take-off, Chiefly Brit send-up: For several years he wrote mainly satires of life among the wealthy.
satirize v. lampoon, burlesque, parody, caricature, travesty, poke fun at, (hold up to) ridicule, make fun or sport of, pillory, deride, mock; mimic, imitate; Colloq take off, put down, Brit send up: Since ancient times writers have satirized the follies of their age.
satisfactory adj. adequate, sufficient, acceptable, passable, all right, not bad, good enough, fair, Colloq OK or okay: I'd say that the food at Michelle's is satisfactory but not outstanding.
satisfying adj. gratifying, satisfactory, fulfilling, filling, satiating; comforting, pleasing, pacifying, pleasurable: That was a very satisfying meal. It is a satisfying feeling to know that you are happy.
sauce n. 1 gravy, condiment: That sauce on the meat was truly delicious. 2 impertinence, sauciness, impudence, audacity, insolence, brazenness, pertness, disrespect, disrespectfulness, Colloq cheek, cheekiness, lip, back talk, backchat, brass, nerve, gall, Slang crust, US and Canadian sass, sassiness: She had the sauce to tell me to pay at once or get out.
savage adj. 1 wild, untamed, undomesticated, feral, unbroken: These savage beasts had never seen a man before. 2 vicious, ferocious, fierce, beastly, bestial, brutish, bloodthirsty, brutal, cruel, ruthless, pitiless, merciless, harsh, bloody, unmerciful, fell, barbarous, barbaric, murderous, demonic, demoniac, sadistic: The boy was subjected to a savage attack by the defendant's dog. The king's guards were selected for their savage nature. 3 wild, uncivilized, uncultivated, primitive, inhuman, bestial, barbaric, barbarous, untamed, rude: The savage behaviour of some New Guinea tribes included cannibalism. --n. 4 wild man or woman, brute, barbarian; Caliban: When the explorers landed on the island, they were welcomed by the savages who lived there.
saving adj. 1 redeeming, redemptory or redemptive or redemptional, compensating, compensatory, qualifying, extenuating, extenuatory: His one saving grace is that he has a lot of money. 2 parsimonious, economical, thrifty, provident, frugal, sparing, prudent: It was only because of Alison's saving nature that we had enough to live on during the strike. --n. 3 economizing, economization, economy, thrift, providence, frugality, prudence, scrimping, scraping, sparingness: It was only by her saving that we survived. 4 savings. resources, reserve, cache, hoard, nest egg: Our savings are to pay for your education, not for having a good time.
savoir faire n. tact, tactfulness, sophistication, finesse, urbanity, discretion, knowledgeability, diplomacy, urbanity, smoothness, polish, suavity or suaveness, poise, grace, style, skill, adroitness, knowledge, comprehension, Slang savvy: She felt a vague sense of social inferiority, an uneasy lack of savoir faire.
savour n. 1 taste, flavour, zest, tang, smack, piquancy: These poached peaches have a savour of brandy about them. 2 hint, suggestion, odour, scent, fragrance, smell, perfume, redolence, bouquet, breath, trace, quality, soupon, dash: He preferred talking about the savour rather than the odour of sanctity, for alliteration's sake. --v. 3 taste, sample, perceive, detect, sense, discern, mark, descry, observe, notice, note, identify; enjoy, luxuriate in, relish, indulge in, bask in, appreciate, revel in, delight in, value, cherish, Colloq lick or smack one's lips or chops over: One could savour a trace of honey in the wine. For a week we savoured the delights of the Costa Brava.
saw n. proverb, maxim, (old) saying, aphorism, apophthegm or apothegm, axiom, adage, epigram, gnome; slogan, motto, catchword, catch-phrase, byword; dictum, platitude, truism, clich, commonplace: She always quoted to him the old saw, 'A fool and his mother are soon parted'.
say-so n. authority, word, say, order, dictum; authorization: I shouldn't do it just on his say-so if I were you.
scale n. 1 flake, imbrication; scurf, dandruff; Technical squama, plate, scute or scutum, lamina, lamella: Scrape the scales off the fish with a sharp knife before gutting it. 2 coating, encrustation or incrustation, crust, overlay, layer, cake, caking, tartar, plaque: The hardness of the water causes the scale inside the kettle.
scaly adj. 1 rough, imbricated, shingly, Technical lamellar, laminar, lamellate, scutate: The scaly covering of reptiles and fishes is related to the feathers of birds. 2 scabby, scabrous, squamous, squamulose, squamosal, squamose, scurfy, furfuraceous, scruffy: The medication causes the skin to dry and become temporarily scaly.
scandal n. 1 shame, disgrace, embarrassment, sin, outrage: It is a scandal how much of the money raised for charity goes into the pockets of the fund-raisers. 2 discredit, damage, calumny, ignominy, obloquy, dishonour, degradation, disrepute, infamy: The scandal resulting from their being found together could never be lived down. The breath of scandal never touched her. 3 slander, libel, aspersion, innuendo, insinuation, abuse, dirt, defilement, defamation, slur, smear, taint, blemish, spot, stigma, smirch, black mark or spot, blot (on the escutcheon), (badge of) infamy, skeleton in the cupboard, Brit blot on one's copybook: His cowardice brought scandal to the name that could never be lived down.
scandalous adj. 1 shocking, disgraceful, ignominious, improper, indecorous, unseemly, infamous, outrageous, shameful, immodest, dishonourable, disreputable, sordid, despicable, flagitious, wicked, sinful, evil, iniquitous, profligate, immoral, indecent, lewd, lascivious, lustful, licentious, lecherous, atrocious, heinous, disgusting, fulsome, taboo, unmentionable, unspeakable: The scandalous goings-on at the Hellfire Club are well documented. 2 defamatory, libellous, slanderous, calumnious, calumniatory, aspersive, abusive, scurrilous, injurious, defamatory: The newspaper published a scandalous article about him which they refused to retract.
scapegoat n. victim, front, dupe, gull, cat's-paw, whipping-boy, Brit man of straw, Aunt Sally, US straw man, Colloq fall guy, Slang sucker: We have to find a scapegoat to take the punishment for us.
scarce adj. scanty, scant, insufficient, inadequate, deficient, wanting, lacking, rare, unusual, at a premium, in short supply, meagre, few and far between, seldom met with, hard to come by, Chiefly Brit thin on the ground: Good editors are very scarce.
scarcity n. lack, want, need, paucity, dearth, insufficiency, shortage, inadequacy, inadequateness: The teaching of foreign languages is not improved by the scarcity of qualified teachers.
scared adj. frightened, alarmed, afraid, appalled, shocked, terrified, horrified, startled: Don't be scared, I won't hurt you.
scathing adj. searing, withering, damaging, harmful, severe, harsh, stern, nasty, biting, acrid, acrimonious, mordant, incisive, cutting, sharp, keen, virulent, vitriolic, acid, scorching, burning, fierce, savage, ferocious: She was totally unprepared for the critics' scathing attack on her book.
scatterbrained n. hare-brained, rattle-headed, rattle-brained, frivolous, flibbertigibbet, giddy, dazed, flighty, wool-gathering, Colloq dippy, dizzy, dopey or dopy, slap-happy: It irritates me to think that our lives might depend on such a scatterbrained fool.
scenario n. 1 (master or ground or floor) plan, (grand) scheme, plot, schema, design, outline, layout, framework, structure; sequence of events, routine: According to this scenario, the bank will provide the financing and we shall organize the take-over. 2 (plot) summary, prcis, rsum, synopsis; (working or shooting) script, screenplay: The scenario for the film was a joint venture between the director and the author of the book on which it was based.
scenic adj. picturesque, panoramic, pretty, beautiful, grand, awesome, awe-inspiring, impressive, striking, spectacular, breathtaking: The train passes through some incredibly scenic routes in Switzerland.
sceptic n. doubter, questioner, doubting Thomas, disbeliever, nullifidian, agnostic, scoffer, cynic: You'll always find some sceptics who don't believe that a woman could be a good prime minister.
scepticism n. doubt, dubiety, dubiousness, doubtfulness, disbelief, incredulity, incredulousness, agnosticism, cynicism, mistrust, distrust, mistrustfulness, distrustfulness: At first, the entire matter was greeted with some scepticism; but then the Berlin Wall came tumbling down.
schematic adj. 1 diagrammatic(al), representational, graphic, charted: We have the schematic drawings showing the placement of the equipment. --n. 2 diagram, blueprint, layout, (floor or game) plan, scheme, design, representation, graph, (flow or PERT) chart: Give copies of the schematics to the electricians so that they can plan where to put the wiring.
scheming adj. conniving, plotting, nefarious, treacherous, crafty, cunning, artful, sly, wily, devious, Machiavellian, intriguing, slick, calculating, tricky, foxy, slippery, underhanded, duplicitous, deceitful: Wait till I lay my hands on the scheming little thief!
schismatic adj. schismatical, separatist, breakaway, divisive, dissident, heretical: The schismatic movement in art was marked by one faction's abandonment of realism.
scholarly adj. learned, erudite, lettered, scholastic, profound, deep, intellectual, academic, highbrow(ed), ivory-tower(ed), Colloq egghead, brainy, US longhair, long-haired: Her scholarly achievements are not limited to scholarly articles for learned journals.
school n. 1 (educational) institution, kindergarten, nursery school, primary or grammar or secondary or high school, institute, college, university, seminary; Alma Mater; boarding-school, day-school; public school, private school, Brit State school; lyce; Lyceum, Brit first or middle school, US junior high school: His mother was very upset when he hinted that he might quit school. 2 set, coterie, circle, clique, group, denomination, faction, sect, followers, devotees, adherents, votaries, disciples; style, kind, form, manner, fashion: Burne-Jones belonged to the Pre-Raphaelite School of painters. 3 philosophy, principles, creed, set of beliefs, way of life, persuasion, credo, dogma, teaching, view, opinion, faction, approach: Regarding the creation of the universe, do you support the big-bang school or the steady-state school? --v. 4 teach, educate, drill, inculcate, instil, indoctrinate, instruct, tutor, train, discipline, coach, prepare, prime, equip, ready; mould, shape, form; school in, imbue with, infuse with: Young ladies were schooled in all the social graces.
schooling n. education, teaching, instruction, tutelage, tuition, guidance, training, preparation, indoctrination, edification, enlightenment; learning, study, research: How many years of schooling are needed to become a doctor?
science n. 1 (body of) knowledge or information, (body of) laws or principles, discipline, study, branch, field, area, subject, realm, sphere: Many new sciences have sprung up even in the past fifty years. DNA research falls properly into the science of microbiologic genetics. 2 skill, art, technique, expertise, proficiency, method, system: He made a science of brewing tea.
scintillating adj. 1 sparkling, coruscating, flashing, dazzling, gleaming, glittering, twinkling, shimmering, glistening, shining, lustrous, radiant, effulgent, brilliant, Literary nitid: Madame Irena appeared wearing a scintillating silver lam gown. 2 exciting, engaging, lively, effervescent, fascinating, entrancing, stimulating, invigorating, dynamic, vivacious: I cannot remember when I last found myself in such scintillating company.
scoff v. 1 devour, put away, gorge oneself on, wolf (down), bolt, stuff (oneself with), gobble (up or down), guzzle, gulp (down), Brit gollop: The two of them scoffed every crumb they could find. --n. 2 food, victuals, rations, edibles, provisions, Colloq grub, eats, chow, Slang Brit prog: In no time at all, they had cleared out every last bit of scoff in the larder.
scoop n. 1 ladle, dipper, bailer, spoon: Use the scoop to skim the fat off the soup. 2 exclusive: Fergus's story on the minister's illegal business dealings was a real scoop for the paper. 3 (latest) news, (inside) story, revelation, truth, Colloq latest, low-down, info, dope, Brit gen, US poop: What's the scoop on that man seen coming out of her bedroom? --v. 4 Often, scoop up. bail, dip, ladle, spoon: They scooped up some sand and spread it on the ice for traction. 5 scoop out. gouge out, excavate, spoon out, hollow out, dig, cut: Scoop out some melon balls for the fruit salad. 6 scoop up. pick up, gather (up), sweep up or together, take up or in: He scooped up the money and ran out of the bank.
scorch v. sear, blacken, burn, roast, singe, char: Though scorched in the fire, the papers were saved intact.
score n. 1 record, account, reckoning, register, tally, amount, number, count, sum, total; mark, grade: What was your best golf score? Chester got a score of 80 in the French test. 2 nick, groove, scratch, line, mark, stroke, notch, cut, Archery nock: Every time he won, he made a score on his walking-stick. 3 twenty: And the days of our lives shall be three score years and ten. 4 Often, scores. dozens, hundreds, (tens or hundreds of) thousands, millions, number(s), drove(s), horde(s), host(s), multitude(s), herd(s), legion(s), lot(s), mass(es), myriad(s), shoal(s), pack(s), covey(s), bevy or bevies, swarm(s), flock(s), army or armies, crowd(s), throng(s): Passengers by the score angrily protested against the airline's policy of overbooking flights. Scores of animals were fleeing before the forest fire. 5 music, accompaniment, Technical full or short or vocal score: Boito might have written the libretto, but the score was by Verdi. 6 situation, story, news, status (quo), condition, word, Colloq latest, scoop, US poop: What's the score on your applications to medical school? 7 dupe, gull, victim, greenhorn, Colloq fall guy, chump, goat, sitting duck, Slang sucker, patsy, mark, Brit mug: That fellow in the Hawaiian shirt looks a likely score for our little scam. 8 ground(s), basis, account, reason, rationale, provocation, cause: On what score can you justify eliminating him from the competition? 9 settle or pay off or even a score or the score or old scores. get revenge, retaliate, get even, avenge, repay, get an eye for an eye, give tit for tat, give measure for measure, pay (someone) back in his or her own coin, give (someone) a taste or a dose of his or her or their own medicine, Colloq get one's own back: He tried to find out where MacTavish moved had moved to as he had an old score to settle with him. --v. 10 mark, line, incise, scratch, nick, notch, cut, groove, graduate; scrape, deface, mar, gouge, slash: The dipstick is scored at intervals to indicate how much oil is in the crankcase. 11 gain or make a point or points, record, tally, account for: George scored a hat trick in the game against Hotspurs. 12 count (for), reckon for or as: The ace scores either 1 or 11 in vingt-et-un. 13 succeed, be successful, triumph, win, make an impression, have an impact, Colloq make a hit: Your plan really scored with the boss. 14 succeed in seducing, Slang make out, get laid: Did you score with Ava last night?
scornful adj. contumelious, contemptuous, disdainful, deprecative, disparaging, derisory, derisive, snide, supercilious, mocking, sneering, scoffing, haughty, overweening, high-handed, superior, Colloq snooty, Slang snotty: The people were scornful of his attempt to reassure them, and continued to demand action.
scour v. 1 scrub, clean, cleanse, wash, rub, abrade, polish, burnish, buff, shine: The pots were scoured until they shone. 2 scrape (about or around), rake, comb, turn upside down, search, ransack: I scoured the shops looking in vain for the coffee filters you wanted.
scout v. 1 Often, scout about or around. reconnoitre, investigate, study, research, examine, explore, spy, search or look (about or around) (for), hunt (about or around) (for), cast around or about (for), Colloq check (about or around): I am going to scout about to find a key that fits. 2 scout up or out. discover, find, locate, uncover, Colloq dig up: I was finally able to scout up a key that fits.
scramble v. 1 climb, clamber, crawl, scrabble, struggle: We scrambled up the rocky hillside with the big cat in pursuit. 2 rush, hurry, scamper, run, hasten, race, scurry, scoot, scuttle, dash, hotfoot (it), hustle, Chiefly US and Canadian, hightail (it), Colloq skedaddle: When the siren sounded, we scrambled down to the air raid shelter. 3 Often, scramble up. mix up, confuse, jumble, intermingle, mingle, commingle: Contestants, spectators, and officials were all scrambled together. --n. 4 scrimmage, struggle, tussle, contention, clash, competition, contest, race, rush, clash, conflict, disorder, commotion, riot, mle or melee, pandemonium, Colloq free-for-all, hassle, Brit scrum or scrummage: Thousands were involved in the scramble for tickets to the rock concert. In the scramble for a directorship Jeremy lost. 5 struggle, climb: She twisted her ankle in the scramble over the rocks.
scrap n. 1 fight, brawl, fracas, fray, affray, rumpus, scuffle, Donnybrook, battle (royal); row, dispute, argument, quarrel, disagreement, wrangle, squabble, tiff, spat, Colloq ruckus, set-to, dust-up: A terrible scrap broke out in the pub last and the police were called in. Our neighbours were having a scrap about who should take the dog for a walk. --v. 2 fight, brawl, spar, scuffle, battle, row, wrangle, argue, disagree, squabble, bicker: Let's not scrap over trifles - only important things.
scrape v. 1 abrade, graze, scratch, bark, scuff, skin, bruise, damage, injure: I scraped my knee on the pavement when I fell. 2 Often, scrape off or away or out. remove, rub off or away, scour or scrub or clean (off or away), scratch off or away, claw (at or away or out), gouge out, scrabble (at), dig out or away at: As I scraped away the grime, a beautiful mosaic was revealed. Each sled dog scraped out a hole in the snow and snuggled into it. 3 skimp, scrimp (and scrape), save, stint, be frugal or stingy or parsimonious or thrifty, pinch and save or scrape, economize; struggle, US scrabble: Only by scraping were we able to pay the increased taxes. 4 bow and scrape. make obeisance, kowtow, salaam, genuflect, kiss the feet or hem or ring, grovel, demean or lower oneself, prostrate oneself, toady, Colloq boot-lick: He can bow and scrape all he likes, but Jones will get nowhere with the foreman. 5 scrape by or through. get by, cope, (barely) manage, survive, scrape or get along, Colloq squeak by, barely make it: We are just about able to scrape by on the little that Nigel is making. 6 scrape together or up. glean, garner, scratch or get or rake together or up, dredge up, scrabble for, gather, save (up), get hold of, marshal, amass, muster, accumulate, aggregate, compile, pile up, stack up, assemble, Colloq scrounge (up): By the time we finally managed to scrape up enough for a down payment on a house, the prices had gone up. --n. 7 abrasion, bruise, scratch, graze, scuff, damage, injury: He was very annoyed when he found a scrape on his brand-new car. 8 predicament, difficulty, quandary, dilemma, plight, (fine) kettle of fish, muddle, stew, situation, position, pinch, Colloq pickle, fix, mess, the crunch, (tight or tough) spot: I got into a terrible scrape by forgetting our wedding anniversary. Can you lend me some money to help me out of a scrape?
scratchy adj. 1 itchy, irritating, prickly: The pullover was as scratchy as a hair shirt. 2 rough, hoarse, raw, grating, sore, raspy, dry: My throat feels a bit scratchy and I need something to drink.
scrawny adj. bony, skinny, spare, drawn, reedy, haggard, lean, lank(y), scraggy, gaunt, raw-boned, angular, emaciated, cadaverous; anorectic or anorexic: She certainly has changed from that scrawny kid I used to know.
screen n. 1 partition, (room) divider, paravent, wall: In their one-room flat a bookcase serves as a screen to separate the living area from the sleeping area. 2 shelter, protection, shield, cover: A row of poplars acts as a screen against the wind. 3 curtain, blind, shroud, cloak, cover; concealment, camouflage: The gauze fabric was too transparent to act as a screen. 4 sieve, mesh, strainer, filter, colander, riddle: The sand has to be shovelled through a screen to get rid of the stones. 5 motion pictures, movies, silver screen; television, small screen, home screen, Colloq box, telly, US boob tube: She is a star of both the big and small screens. --v. 6 partition (off), separate, divide, wall off: Why not use a beaded curtain to screen the kitchen area from the dining-room? 7 shelter, protect, shield, cover, guard, conceal, camouflage, mask, veil, hide: A decorative pierced wall screens the ladies of the harem from the prying eyes of visitors. 8 sift, separate (out), sort (out), filter, select, cull, process, interview, evaluate, grade, gauge, qualify, examine, scan, Chiefly Brit vet: The agency screens all candidates before sending them to see a client.
scribe n. 1 copyist, copier, transcriber, Archaic scrivener; amanuensis, clerk, secretary: Before the invention of movable type printing, copies of books and documents were prepared by scribes. 2 writer, author, penman, scrivener, wordsmith, scribbler, hack, penny-a-liner; dramatist, dramaturge, playwright, poet, novelist, essayist, columnist, technical writer; journalist, gentleman or lady of the press, newspaperman, newspaperwoman, reporter, rewrite man or woman or person, editor, reviewer, commentator, newswriter, sob sister, agony aunt or uncle, Miss Lonelyhearts, gossip columnist, member of the fourth estate, Brit paragraphist, leader-writer, US Grub Streeter, Colloq Brit journo: In a general way, he refers to all writers as 'scribes', but particularly those he considers a bit old-fashioned. --v. 3 inscribe, incise, etch, engrave, mark, scratch, score, grave, scrimshaw, carve, chase or enchase: The shotgun was scribed with the most beautiful designs, some inlaid in gold.
script n. 1 handwriting, hand, (cursive) writing, penmanship; calligraphy: These love-letters are written in an unusually beautiful script. 2 manuscript, scenario, book, play, screenplay, teleplay, libretto, continuity: Stick to the script - I don't want you ad libbing! --v. 3 write, pen, prepare, create: The new series was scripted by the same writer who wrote 'Out in the Outback'. 4 plan, organize, design, arrange, lay out, order, configure, pattern: The take-over of the company had not been scripted in their business forecasts.
scrounge v. 1 ferret out, seek out, nose or smell out, come up with, scrape together or up, scratch up; importune, cadge, beg (, borrow, or steal), Colloq US freeload, bum: Did Hedley try to scrounge some money from you, too? --n. 2 scrounger, cadger, parasite, Colloq sponger, US freeloader: Hedley, that scrounge, has just asked me for a cigarette.
scruple n. 1 compunction, qualm, reluctance, misgiving, second thoughts, doubt, (twinge of) conscience, hesitation, uneasiness, discomfort, squeamishness: Peter hadn't the slightest scruple about taking the money from his aunt. --v. 2 pause, falter, hesitate, vacillate, have doubts or compunction (about), demur, waver, shrink from or at, have misgivings or qualms (about or over), be loath or loth (to), think twice (about), stick at, be reluctant, balk (at), have scruples (about): Susan didn't scruple for a moment about keeping the money she found in the street.
scrutinize v. examine, analyse, dissect, investigate, probe, study, inspect, sift, go over or through, check: I have scrutinized the results of the blood tests and can find nothing abnormal.
scud v. fly, skim, race, scoot, speed, shoot: We scudded along in the catamaran at a good 30 knots.
scurrilous adj. foul-mouthed, thersitical, gross, indecent, profane, Fescennine, vulgar, obscene, licentious, Sotadean or Sotadic, foul, vituperative, low, coarse, scabrous, vile, nasty, defamatory, derogatory, disparaging, vilifying, calumnious or calumniatory, malign, aspersive, opprobrious, offensive, abusive, insulting: Clifford was an inveterate collector of scurrilous limericks.
scurvy adj. low, miserable, contemptible, vile, base, despicable, rotten, sorry, bad, ignoble, dishonourable, mean, worthless, shabby: Robbing poor old ladies is a pretty scurvy activity.
sea-coast n. seashore, shore, coast, seaside, seaboard, shoreline, coastline, littoral, sand(s), beach, strand: The people in the villages along the sea-coast depend mainly on fishing for their livelihood.
seal n. 1 symbol, token, mark, insigne (pl. insignia), sign, signet, crest, bearing, coat of arms, escutcheon, emblem, badge, monogram, identification, cartouche, design, imprint, stamp: The seal on his ring showed a crouching lion. 2 authentication, confirmation, verification, validation, affirmation, attestation, ratification, corroboration, assurance, guarantee or guaranty, endorsement, substantiation, evidence, notice, notification: Management set their seal of approval on the plans. --v. 3 Sometimes, seal off or up. close (off or up), shut (off), zip up, plug (up), stop (up), lock, bolt, secure, batten down, make airtight or waterproof; cork: All exits had been sealed off. They sealed up the windows so that no air could get in. 4 authenticate, confirm, verify, validate, affirm, attest, ratify, clinch, corroborate, assure, ensure, guarantee, endorse: The peace treaty was sealed by the marriage of the king to the emperor's daughter.
seamy adj. sordid, nasty, dark, disreputable, shameful, unwholesome, unpalatable, unsavoury, distasteful, unseemly, squalid, low, depraved, degenerate, degraded, foul, vile, odious, abhorrent, contemptible, scurvy, rotten, unattractive, ugly, repulsive, repellent: In his later work, he painted the seamy side of life in the slums.
searchingly adv. penetratingly, piercingly, intently, deeply, fixedly, concentratedly, eagerly: She looked searchingly into my eyes for some glimmer of hope.
seasonable adj. appropriate, opportune, suitable, apt, timely, fitting, providential, well-timed, proper, fit, propitious, welcome, well-suited, happy, lucky, fortunate, convenient, auspicious, favourable, advantageous, expedient: The success of the book was owing largely to its seasonable publication, just at the end of the cold war.
seasoning n. spice, zest, flavour, relish, sauce: The fact that a former film star was running for office lent just the right seasoning to the campaign. seat n. 1 place, chair, bench, sofa, settee, settle, stool, throne: He found a seat and waited to be called. 2 focus, base, centre, heart, hub, site, capital, cradle, headquarters, fountain-head: In those days, Paris was the main seat of learning in western Europe. Istanbul was established as the seat of the Turkish empire. 3 membership, position, incumbency: His grandfather held a seat in the House of Commons. 4 bottom, buttocks, posterior(s), rump, hindquarters, fundament, derrire, Colloq behind, butt, backside, rear (end), Brit bum, US fanny, tushie, tush, tokus, hinie, Slang tail, Brit arse, US ass: He needs a swift kick in the seat to get him to move. 5 abode, residence, home, domicile, estate, mansion: The duchess used to spend the summer at her country seat in Norfolk. --v. 6 hold, accommodate, have room or space or capacity for, contain, sit: The new auditorium will seat more than four thousand. 7 install or instal, enthrone, ensconce, instate, invest, establish, place, swear in: Once Lord Carter has been seated, it will be difficult to get rid of him.
secede v. withdraw or resign or retire (from), abandon, forsake, apostasize, break with or away (from), drop or pull out (of), turn one's back to or on, quit, separate from, leave, wash one's hands of, have nothing further to do with: The City of New York occasionally threatens to secede from the United States.
secluded adj. 1 private, separate, isolated, lonely, cloistered, sequestered, detached, solitary, retired, eremitic, monastic: He lives a very secluded life on an island in the Outer Hebrides. 2 off the beaten track, out-of-the-way, remote, far-away, far-off, separate, segregated, private: He chose a secluded island in the Outer Hebrides for his vacation.
second adj. 1 subsequent, following, next: He let the first target go by and aimed for the second one. 2 subordinate, next: If the colonel isn't here, who is the second officer? 3 alternative, second-best: She refuses to settle for second choice. 4 alternate, other: The laundry is picked up and delivered every second Tuesday. His second language is Italian. 5 other, later, younger, newer, more recent: After his first wife died, he took her nurse as his second wife. 6 another, duplicate: The boy is a second Einstein. --n. 7 defective or imperfect or damaged or faulty or deficient or flawed or impaired or marred or blemished or bruised or inferior merchandise: The prices of these shirts have been reduced because they are seconds. 8 subordinate, assistant, number two, lieutenant, aide-de-camp, man Friday, girl Friday, right hand; understudy, stand-in, substitute, surrogate, double, alternate, backer, supporter; Colloq US gal Friday: Not being ambitious, Helen would prefer to be a second to the person who runs the business. --v. 9 support, back, aid, help, assist, approve (of), advance, promote, subscribe to, espouse, sponsor, patronize, favour, encourage, go along with: Madam Chairwoman, I would like to second this proposal. 10 transfer, move, assign, shift, relocate: After the Falklands War, he was seconded to fleet headquarters for a year. --adv. 11 secondly, in the second place, secondarily, (number) two, b or B: I want to go: first, because it'll be interesting, and second, because Jake'll be there.
secondary adj. 1 less important, unimportant, inessential or unessential, non-essential, non-critical, subsidiary, ancillary, minor, inferior, subordinate: These secondary matters can be dealt with after the important ones. 2 derivative, derived, indirect, second-hand, unoriginal, not original; copied, imitated: His biography of Queen Victoria was based entirely on secondary sources. 3 auxiliary, second-line, backup, extra, reserve, spare, provisional, supporting, supportive, alternate, alternative: We were forced to rely on our secondary defences after the enemy cavalry broke through.
secrecy n. 1 mystery, concealment, confidentiality, stealth, secretiveness, surreptitiousness, privacy, furtiveness, covertness, clandestineness: Why was there so much secrecy surrounding the publication date of Jennie's book? 2 in secrecy. secretly, mysteriously, confidentially, stealthily, secretively, surreptitiously, privately, furtively, covertly, clandestinely, sneakily: They carry on much of their business in secrecy.
secrete v. hide, conceal, cache, bury, cloak, shroud, enshroud, camouflage, mask, disguise, Slang stash away: They secreted the haul from the robbery in the cellar of a house in Balham.
secretion n. secreting, release, escape, oozing, seeping, seepage, discharge, discharging, leak, leaking, leakage, drip, dripping, drop, dropping, dribbling, trickling, trickle, running, drain, draining, emission, emitting, giving off, exudation, transudation, excretion, excreting, emanation, emanating, generation, Technical extravasation; transudate, excreta, Technical extravasate: The secretion of perspiration may be profuse under such circumstances. The secretion is highly acid in content.
secretly adv. surreptitiously, quietly, privately, covertly, on the qt or QT, furtively, stealthily, mysteriously, clandestinely, in secret, confidentially, on the sly, slyly, sub rosa, sub sigillo: I can tell you secretly that she is wanted by the police. Henry secretly rents videotape cartoons to watch at weekends.
sectarian adj. 1 cultist, cultish, clannish, cliquish, partisan, partial, dogmatic, doctrinaire, factional: They seldom mingle with others, maintaining their sectarian existence. 2 parochial, narrow, narrow-minded, limited, insular, provincial, rigid, fanatic(al), prejudicial, prejudiced, bigoted: Because they refused to consider ideas other than their own, they gradually became more and more sectarian in their views. --n. 3 adherent, member, sectary, votary, cultist, partisan: They tried to banish Anabaptists, Lutherans, Calvinists, and other sectarians. 4 (true) believer, dogmatist, fanatic, bigot, zealot, extremist, Slang nut, bug, fiend: Some of the sectarians engage in the ritualistic handling of live rattlesnakes.
secular adj. worldly, terrestrial, mundane, temporal, material, lay, laic or laical, non-clerical, non-ecclesiastic(al), non-spiritual, non-religious, civil, state: Once he had taken his vows, he put aside secular matters.
security n. 1 safety, shelter, protection, fastness, refuge, safe keeping, sanctuary, asylum: During the air raids, we retired to the security of the basement. 2 confidence, certainty, surety, assurance, conviction: He has the security of knowing that he is right in this instance. 3 guarantee or guaranty, collateral, deposit, gage, pledge, insurance: What are you going to offer as security for the loan? 4 surveillance, safeguarding, guarding, safe keeping, protection, custody, custodianship, care: What plans does the company have for the security of the office building?
sedative n. 1 narcotic, tranquillizer, opiate, sleeping-pill, soporific, calmative, anodyne, depressant, hypnotic, barbiturate, lenitive, Colloq downer, knock-out drop, Slang Mickey (Finn): The doctor has given him a sedative and he should sleep now. --adj. 2 narcotic, tranquillizing, relaxing, soothing, calming, allaying, opiate, soporific, sleep-inducing, calmative, anodyne, lenitive, depressing, hypnotic: I found that listening to a recording of surf splashing on a beach has a sedative effect.
sediment n. lees, dregs, deposit, grounds, precipitate, remains, residue, settlings, residuum, detritus: Periodically, the sediment must be cleaned out of the filters.
seditious adj. rebellious, mutinous, revolutionary, insurgent, inflammatory, rabble-rousing, insurrectionist, insurrectionary, refractory, subversive, treacherous, dissident, disloyal, turncoat, unfaithful: One seditious action on the part of the colonists was to dump tea into the harbour at Boston, Massachusetts.
seducer n. See also seductress, below. rake, libertine, rou, playboy, lady-killer, lecher, debauchee, debaucher, lover, cicisbeo, Don Juan, Lothario, Casanova, Colloq wolf: She can't really be going out with that wretched seducer!
seductress n. See also seducer, above. temptress, siren, femme fatale, enchantress, Circe, Lorelei, Jezebel, vamp: That clever seductress will soon have him eating out of her hand.
seed n. 1 grain, spore, kernel, pit, tuber, bulb, corm, Technical ovum, ovule, embryo, egg, germ: Add water and the seeds will soon germinate. 2 origin, source, cause, root, provocation, reason, basis, grounds; motive, motivation, motivating factor: The seeds of suspicion were sown by the continuous police presence in the neighbourhood. 3 offspring, children, progeny, young, issue, descendants, heirs, successors: Yea, and verily I say unto you that his seed shall populate the earth. 4 go or run to seed. run down, become dilapidated or worn out or shabby, decay, go downhill, decline, degenerate, deteriorate, go to rack and ruin, Colloq go to pot: If he doesn't start to look after it, the entire place will go to seed. --v. 5 scatter, sow, distribute: Don't walk on the freshly seeded lawn.
seeing conjunction. in view of (the fact that), whereas, in (the) light of, inasmuch as, since, considering: Seeing that you are here, you might as well tell her yourself.
seem v. appear, look (as if or non-standard in US like), sound, feel, have (all) the hallmarks or earmarks of, give every indication or appearance of: He seems all right to me. She seems to have forgotten her key again. It seems as if I've never been away at all. He seemed frightened.
seemingly adv. apparently, evidently, ostensibly, outwardly, superficially, falsely, allegedly, speciously, purportedly, professedly, on the face of it, possibly, feasibly, conceivably, plausibly, believably: The purpose of this seemingly honest confession was to throw the detectives off the scent.
seer n. soothsayer, fortune-teller, sibyl, oracle, prophet, prophetess, augur, vaticinator, prophesier, clairvoyant, psychic, crystal-gazer, star-gazer: The seer foretold a grave famine and much suffering in the land. see-saw n. 1 teeter: The children were playing on the see-saw. --v. 2 teeter, totter, waver, vary, vacillate, oscillate, alternate, fluctuate, swing, switch: He couldn't make up his mind and kept see-sawing between staying and going.
see-through adj. sheer, diaphanous, gauzy, transparent, translucent, gossamer, filmy, peekaboo: She was wearing a see-through neglige when she appeared at the door.
segregate v. separate, segment, partition, isolate, seclude, sequester, set apart, compartmentalize, exclude, ostracize, discriminate against: In the sorting process, each size must be segregated into its own compartment. Their policy was to segregate the Blacks from the rest of the population.
seize v. 1 Sometimes, seize on. grab, grasp, clutch, take (hold of), grip, snatch: Robin felt that he had to seize every opportunity that presented itself. The dog seized the robber by the seat of the pants. 2 capture, catch, arrest, take into custody, take prisoner, apprehend, round up, Colloq pinch, nab, collar, pick up, Brit nick, Slang bust: The police seized him as he was trying to leave the country. 3 catch, transfix, stop, hold, possess, take possession of, afflict, beset, visit, subject: I was seized by a sudden desire to kiss those quivering, pouting lips. 4 take advantage of, make good use of: When their attention was diverted, I seized the opportunity to escape. 5 confiscate, take (away), commandeer, appropriate, capture, take possession of, impound: Ten tons of cannabis was seized in the raid. 6 seize up, bind, jam, stop, lock (up), stick, freeze (up): Because of the excessive heat, the gears seized and the engine stalled.
seldom adv. rarely, infrequently, not often, hardly ever, very occasionally: Since they moved away, we seldom see the Pattersons.
selection n. 1 choice, pick, preference, option: Please make your selection from the merchandise in this display. 2 assortment, variety, collection, range, batch, number, set, series, group: Tonight I shall play for you a selection of jazz recordings made at the Savoy. 3 selecting, choosing, picking, singling out, electing, settling on, voting for, opting for, choice, pick, election: Selection has been delayed till tomorrow. 4 extract, quotation, excerpt, abstract, passage, piece, quote: I shall read you a selection from Blake's Songs of Innocence and Experience .
self-abuse n. masturbation, onanism, self-gratification, auto-eroticism or autoerotism, self-stimulation, self-manipulation, self-pollution, self-defilement, self-contamination, Technical manustupration: Victorian schoolboys were punished if suspected of self-abuse.
self-confident adj. confident, self-assured, assured, poised, self-reliant, secure, sure of oneself, positive, definite, assertive, independent: She seems much more self-confident, relaxed, and contented these days.
self-contained adj. 1 self-possessed, unemotional, self-controlled, in control, composed, serene, peaceful, calm, tranquil, cool, collected, even-tempered, detached, imperturbable, unruffled, undisturbed, unperturbed, controlled, placid, grave, serious, sober, solemn, Colloq unflappable: Sometimes I think Frank is a little too self-contained. 2 reserved, controlled, distant, aloof, formal, withdrawn, reticent, standoffish: Gregory is so self-contained that he did not tell anyone that he was ill, not even his wife. 3 whole, entire, complete, stand-alone, unitary: The house has been divided into five self-contained apartments.
self-denial n. 1 self-sacrifice,self-abnegation, renunciation, selflessness, altruism, unselfishness, magnanimity: His contributions must have been made at the cost of some self-denial. 2 hardship, suffering, self-mortification, asceticism, privation, renunciation, renouncing, abstemiousness, abstinence, abstention, self-deprivation, keeping away from, refusal, refusing, giving up, desisting, Colloq swearing off: As far as certain foods are concerned, a little self-denial is good for one's health. 3 See self-control, 1, above.
self-evident adj. evident, obvious, patent, clear, incontrovertible, definite, express, distinct, clear-cut, apparent, unmistakable or unmistakeable, undeniable, inescapable, incontestable, plain, axiomatic, proverbial, manifest, true, palpable, tangible: Her guilt seemed self-evident at first. The gradual destruction of the beaches is self-evident.
self-important adj. conceited, self-centred, self-seeking, self-absorbed, vain, egotistic(al), self-satisfied, smug, pompous, swollen-headed, swell-headed, arrogant, overweening, overbearing, vainglorious, self-glorifying, self-engrossed, presumptuous, snobbish, haughty, Colloq snooty, Slang snotty, stuck-up: That self-important little cockalorum ought to be taken down a few pegs.
selfish adj. 1 greedy, covetous, grasping, avaricious, self-indulgent, self-aggrandizing, acquisitive, self-seeking, self-loving, self-centred, self-absorbed, self-interested, self-serving, egotistic(al), egoistic(al): They pursue success for their own selfish ends. 2 stingy, mean, mercenary, tight, tight-fisted, narrow, penurious, parsimonious, miserly, niggardly, penny-pinching, cheese-paring, ungenerous, illiberal, grudging, uncharitable, possessive, inconsiderate, thoughtless: He is so selfish that he won't even give you the right time.
self-made adj. independent, self-reliant, entrepreneurial, self-sufficient: She is a self-made woman and has accomplished it all without anyone else's help.
self-respect n. honour, dignity, integrity, self-regard, self-esteem, pride, amour propre, morale: He managed to maintain a semblance of his self-respect despite the accusations hurled at him.
self-styled adj. would-be, self-called, soi-disant, professed, self-appointed, self-christened, so-called, quasi-: The building has been designed by a firm of self-styled 'neo-traditionalist' architects.
self-willed adj. headstrong, determined, forceful, refractory, stubborn, obstinate, pigheaded, wilful, ungovernable, uncontrollable, unruly, unmanageable, intractable, contrary, perverse, uncooperative, contumacious, recalcitrant, stiff-necked, vexatious, difficult, incorrigible, disobedient: That self-willed, overindulged little brat needs a good spanking.
seller n. dealer, vendor, merchant, retailer, shopkeeper, salesperson, salesman, saleswoman, saleslady, sales agent, representative, traveller, travelling salesman, peddler, hawker, colporteur, sutler, chandler, Old-fashioned counter-jumper, Brit shop assistant, -monger (as in costermonger, ironmonger, fishmonger, etc.), US and Canadian sales-clerk, clerk, shop-girl, Colloq rep, US drummer: Time ran out on his job as a seller of water-clocks and hourglasses.
seminal adj. 1 original, basic, creative, primary, prime, formative, innovative, imaginative, new, unprecedented, precedent-setting, landmark, benchmark, important, influential, telling: Michaelson's paper is considered the seminal work on the subject. It sets forth many seminal ideas. 2 embryonic, germinal, potential, undeveloped, incipient: Each seed contains a seminal plant.
send v. 1 Sometimes, send off. dispatch or despatch, commission, charge, depute, delegate, assign: The pope sent an emissary to London. 2 communicate, transmit, convey, deliver, consign, address to, mail, post, fax, remit, ship, forward; broadcast, telecast, televise, radio, telegraph: The message is being sent to all concerned. 3 release, discharge, shoot, propel, fire, fling, project, hurl; cast, throw, toss, let fly: With a great burst of flame the satellite was sent into orbit. 4 delight, please, charm, enrapture, stir, thrill, move, electrify, Slang turn (someone) on: That saxophone solo really sends me. 5 send down. imprison, incarcerate, send away, jail or Brit also gaol Slang US send up (the river): If she doesn't mend her ways, she'll be sent down. 6 send for. call for, summon, order, request, ask for: I have sent for a taxi which should be here shortly. 7 send forth or out. emit, radiate, discharge, give off, exude, grow: The object sent forth a strange phosphorescent glow. In the spring, the vine sends forth tendrils. 8 send off. send (someone) away, send (someone) away or off with a flea in his or her ear, dismiss, discharge, send (someone) packing, send (someone) about his or her business, Colloq give (someone) his or her walking papers, Slang give (someone) the brushoff, US give (someone) the brush: I went to the office as you instructed, but they just sent me off with no explanation. 9 send up. a lampoon, satirize, burlesque, parody, make fun of, Colloq take off, spoof, Brit take the mickey out of: In Britain one of the enduring forms of humour is in sending up the government. b imprison, incarcerate, send away, jail or Brit also gaol, Slang US send up the river: He was sent up for insider trading.
senility n. (of a woman) anility; senile dementia, Alzheimer's disease, senescence, decrepitude, decline, dotage, second childhood, loss of one's faculties: An increased life-span has created increased cases of senility.
senior citizen n. elderly person, retired person, pensioner, Brit OAP (='old-age pensioner'), grey panther, Chiefly US retiree, golden-ager: Special tax provisions have been made for senior citizens.
sensational adj. 1 exciting, stimulating, electrifying, galvanizing, shocking, hair-raising, spine-tingling, thrilling, stirring, breathtaking, amazing, astonishing, astounding, staggering, mind-boggling, unbelievable, incredible, spectacular, Slang mind-blowing: They certainly put on a sensational show - the best I have ever seen. 2 lurid, vivid, overdone, overdrawn, extreme, melodramatic, exaggerated, dramatic, extravagant: The weekly I worked for insisted that each issue's first page carry a sensational story - whether it was true or not. 3 (very) good, great, marvellous, wonderful, superior, superb, matchless, peerless, unequalled, nonpareil, extraordinary, terrific, phenomenal, splendid, fabulous, fantastic, stupendous, Colloq super, smashing, Slang far-out: Suzanne Peters's performance was sensational in Carmen .
senseless adj. 1 insensible, unconscious, (knocked) out (cold), stunned, insensate, comatose: Agatha's head hit the fire-grate and she was borne senseless to her room. 2 numb(ed), insensate, unfeeling, benumbed, unfeeling, insensible, anaesthetized, dead, deadened, insentient: My feet are senseless from the cold. 3 pointless, purposeless, ridiculous, ludicrous, unintelligent, illogical, irrational, incongruous, meaningless, absurd, wild, mad, crazy, demented, insane, asinine, nonsensical, imbecilic or imbecile, idiotic, moronic, simple-minded, fatuous, stupid, foolish, silly, dizzy, halfwitted, mindless, brainless, witless, empty-headed, thimble-witted, pea-brained, bird-brained, hare-brained, feather-headed, rattle-brained, addle-pated, muddle-headed, Colloq daft, US daffy, nutty, batty, Slang wacky, dippy: Many of the government's objections to the plan are just senseless posturing. He is promoting some senseless plan for double-decker motorways.
sensible adj. 1 reasonable, realistic, logical, common-sense, commonsensical, rational, reasoned, sound, practical, prudent, judicious, discreet, intelligent, sage, wise, sane; down-to-earth, matter-of-fact, well-thought-out: Do you really think it sensible to go out in this storm? Andrew has a very sensible way of dealing with junk mail - he returns it to sender. 2 perceivable, perceptible, detectable, evident, discernible, recognizable, ascertainable, apprehensible, cognizable, manifest, palpable, physical, tangible, corporeal, substantive, material, visible, observable, seeable: Some maintain that in addition to the sensible world there is another world, an anti-world, that we do not normally encounter. 3 sentient, feeling, sensitive, live, conscious, aware: Who among us ever regards microbes as sensible creatures? 4 Usually, sensible of or to. conscious (of), aware (of), acquainted (with), cognizant (of), sensitive (to), alive to, mindful (of), understanding (of), in touch (with), observant (of), awake (to), alert (to), Slang wise (to), hip or old-fashioned hep (to): The people of the village are ever sensible to the needs of their neighbours. There are some things to which we are not at all sensible. 5 appreciable, significant, considerable, substantial, substantive, noticeable: The theory is that an increased interest rate will have a sensible effect on the rate of inflation.
sensitivity n. 1 sensitiveness, delicacy, touchiness, over-sensitivity, hypersensitivity, supersensitivity; soreness, irritability: The sensitivity of teenagers to criticism is well known to teachers and parents. She complained of sensitivity and pain in the pelvic region. 2 compassion, concern, sympathy, tenderness, tender-heartedness, kind-heartedness, kindliness, warmth, feeling: The nurses exhibit a genuine sensitivity for the problems of the handicapped. 3 awareness, consciousness, acuteness, perception, understanding, intuition, feeling, sense, sensitivity, sensitiveness, receptivity or receptiveness, receptibility, appreciation, appreciativeness, susceptibility, susceptivity or susceptiveness: Harvey has a keen sensitivity for the feelings of others. Sometimes I think the duke lacks the sensitivity needed to sympathize with the needy.
sensualist n. lecher, profligate, wanton, debauchee, rou, rake, Romeo, Don Juan, Casanova, Lothario, libertine; voluptuary, hedonist, sybarite, bon viveur, bon vivant, epicure, epicurean, gourmet, gourmand, gastronome, pleasure-seeker: The main character in the film is a self-seeking sensualist who betrays every woman in his life.
sentence n. judgement, decision, ruling, verdict, decree, determination; punishment, Slang rap: It is up to the judge to announce the sentence of the court. Asked by his teacher for an example of a short sentence, Johnny replied, 'Thirty days'.
sentimental adj. 1 emotional, sympathetic, compassionate, tender, warm-hearted, tender-hearted: Has he returned for sentimental reasons or for practical and mercenary ones? 2 romantic, nostalgic, emotional, maudlin, mawkish, over-emotional, tender, tearful, weepy, sickening, nauseating, simpering, sweet, saccharine, Colloq sloppy, gooey, sticky, tacky, mushy, slushy, gushy, soppy, drippy, tear-jerking, ill-making, sick-making, Slang corny, schmaltzy, icky, yucky or yukky: His last tune is always some sentimental ballad like 'Good Night, Sweetheart'.
sentinel n. sentry, guard, watchman, watch, picket, lookout, patrol: The sentinels measured out the ramparts of the fortress with their regular paces.
separate v. 1 disjoin, pull or take or break apart, come or fall apart, fall or take or break to pieces, split or divide or break (up), split or break (off or away), disconnect, disengage, part, partition, sort (out), uncouple, disarticulate, disassemble, unhook, detach, disunite, unyoke, disentangle, unravel: In order to clean it, I first have to separate all the individual elements of the motor. The glue didn't hold, and the vase separated into a dozen fragments. Separate this yarn into different piles. 2 distinguish, discriminate, analyse, sort, break down, classify, segregate, single out, sequester, type, codify, organize, split up; group, collate: What criteria are used to separate the men from the boys, the sheep from the goats, or the wheat from the chaff? 3 split or break up, part (company), divide (up), disband, divorce: After ten years we separated, and each went our own way. 4 fork, split (up or off), bifurcate, diverge, branch: Beyond the river, the road to Norton separates from the main road. --adj. 5 divided, separated, disjoined, disconnected, detached, isolated, discrete, distinct, individual, independent, solitary, different: Sort these books by subject into separate piles. 6 different, independent, unrelated, other: How you behave when you are not at home is a separate matter. 7 withdrawn, solitary, alone, shut or closed off or away, apart, detached, removed, cloistered, secluded, sequestered, isolated, separated: He prefers a separate existence, far away from the rest of the world.
separation n. 1 rift, break, split, split-up, divorce, break-up, disunion, estrangement: Their separation, after forty years, was a surprise. 2 partition, division, split, schism, dividing line, dissociation, disassociation, severance: The United States constitution provides for the separation of church and state. 3 disintegration, shattering, break-up, fragmentation, dismemberment, taking or keeping apart, segregation, division, disjoining, disjunction, fission, scission, rupture, schism, splitting, split, fracturing, fracture, break: After a crash, investigators supervise the separation of the aeroplane into its tens of thousands of component parts.
sequel n. follow-up, upshot, issue, result, consequence, development, supplement: The ruling went against him, but there was a curious sequel when he was suddenly offered an out-of-court settlement. They are showing the film Jean de Florette , together with its sequel Manon des Sources .
sequential adj. successive, ordered, orderly, serial, progressive, organized, systematic, cyclic, continuous: Would you please put these periodicals into sequential order?
serene adj. 1 peaceful, tranquil, calm, pacific, peaceable, restful, halcyon, idyllic, bucolic, pastoral, undisturbed, unruffled, imperturbable, unperturbed, untroubled, quiet, still: With the turmoil of the love affair behind her, Sharon looked ahead to a more serene life. 2 calm, cool, collected, placid, composed, self-possessed, poised, unexcitable, even-tempered, temperate, nonchalant, easygoing, cool-headed, easy, Colloq unflappable: Beneath William's serene exterior lay a seething, churning miasma of violent lust.
serious adj. 1 grave, solemn, earnest, unsmiling, poker-faced, straight-faced, sedate, sober, pensive, thoughtful; humourless, sombre, grim, dour, severe: One should be wary of the person who is always serious, who cannot see the ludicrous side of life. 2 grave, important, vital, dangerous, weighty, significant, momentous, crucial, consequential, life-and-death or life-or-death, urgent, pressing; no laughing matter, of consequence or moment or importance: Things like the greenhouse effect and the hole in the ozone layer are serious concerns for all mankind. 3 sincere, straightforward, not joking or fooling, genuine, honest: Is he serious about wanting me to fetch him a left-handed wrench? 4 acute, critical, life-threatening, bad, dangerous, nasty, perilous, alarming, grave, severe, precarious: His condition is serious and we might have to operate tonight. She had no idea that measles could be such a serious illness.
sermon n. 1 lecture, lesson, preaching, reprimand, reproach, reproof, remonstration, remonstrance, scolding, harangue, Colloq talking-to, dressing-down: Mother gave me a long sermon last night about getting home late. 2 homily, address, exhortation, lesson, lecture, speech, talk, discourse: We thought that Father Keiller's sermon on vanity was especially appropriate.
serrated adj. sawlike, saw-shaped, sawtoothed, toothed, notched, zigzag, jagged, serrate, serriform, serratiform, serrulate(d), crenellated, crenulate, crenate, denticulate: A knife with a serrated edge would cut the meat more easily.
servant n. 1 domestic (servant), help, retainer; maid, maidservant, parlour-maid, upstairs maid, lady's maid, cleaner, cleaning man, cleaning woman, amah; housekeeper, chatelaine, major-domo, factotum, steward, seneschal, butler, houseman, houseboy, boy, page; valet, man, gentleman's gentleman, manservant, serving-man, footman, foot-boy, chauffeur, driver, attendant, groom; governess, au pair (girl), nurse, nursemaid, ayah; cook, chef, waiter, waitress, stewardess, wine steward, sommelier (des vins); menial, lackey, dogsbody, Archaic servitor, Historical coachman, postilion, serving-woman, serving-girl, servant-girl, serving-wench, scullery-maid, scullion, Literary cup-boy, Ganymede, Chiefly Brit nanny, Brit boots, charwoman, charlady, daily, tweeny, US scrubwoman: Who can afford to keep domestic servants these days? 2 civil servant. civil-service employee or worker, public servant, (government or State) official, office-holder, government worker: In his capacity as a civil servant, Richard has worked for several different governments.
service n. 1 help, assistance, aid, use, usefulness, utility, benefit, advantage: May I be of service to you? You could do me a great service by not saying anything of this to my mother. 2 maintenance, overhaul, servicing, checking, repair, mending: Must we send the copier out for service or can they do it in the office? 3 serving, accommodation, amenities, waiting, care: The food is good but the service leaves much to be desired. 4 employment, employ: How long have you been in my service, Jones? 5 use, utilization, usage, handling: This old teapot has seen much service. 6 assignment, post, appointment, Military Brit secondment: Oscar was on service in the Far East during the war. 7 rite, ceremony, ritual, worship: I shall be attending a memorial service for Grimes on Saturday. 8 Often, services. army, navy, air force, marines; armed forces or services, military: He was a pianist before joining the service. 9 Often, services. talents, help, professional care, work, advice: You will need the services of a good accountant. 10 serve, serving; putting into play: Clarke's tennis service is faster and more accurate than before.
servile adj. submissive, subservient, menial, craven, acquiescent, abject, cringing, slavish, mean, fawning, deferential, mean-spirited, vile, low, base, ingratiating, grovelling, obsequious, toadying, toadyish, sycophantish, sycophantic, truckling, wheedling, unctuous, slimy, flattering, time-serving, boot-licking, Colloq chiefly Brit smarmy, US and Canadian apple-polishing, Slang Brit arse-kissing, US ass-kissing, Taboo slang brown-nosing, Brit arse-licking, US ass-licking: Victor is constantly trying to gain favour with the directors in the most servile way.
servitude n. bondage, slavery, thraldom, serfdom, subjugation, enslavement, subjection, vassalage: They were sentenced to ten years' penal servitude.
set v. 1 set down, place, put, situate, locate, site, plant, position, station, stand, lay, install or instal, lodge, mount, park, deposit, plump, drop, plunk or plonk (down): Please set that blue box over here. 2 go down, sink, decline, subside: The sun is setting. 3 jell or gel, congeal, freeze, solidify, stiffen, harden, clot, coagulate, thicken, cake: The concrete takes a long time to set in this weather. 4 establish, fix, fasten on, appoint: The date of the wedding has been set for May 23rd. 5 focus on, home or zero in on, pinpoint, pin down: When Ivor sets his mind on doing something, it usually gets done. 6 adjust, regulate, turn, synchronize, fix, calibrate, coordinate: Set your watches to Greenwich Mean Time. Set the counter back to zero. 7 present, introduce, establish, determine, stipulate, lay down, define, indicate, designate, specify; set or mark off, delineate: Who set the pattern for such behaviour? You'll have to set the rules. 8 prepare, set up, concoct, lay, arrange, fix: I think we ought to set a trap for the burglar. 9 set forth, propound, present, devise, work out or up, make up, select, choose, decide, settle, establish: Who is going to set the questions for the examination? 10 arrange, lay, spread: If you set the table, I'll serve dinner. 11 adjust, move, tilt, fix, place, position, lodge: He set his hat at a jaunty angle and strode out of the restaurant. 12 set about. a get or make ready, start, begin, get to work, set in motion, get under way, start the ball rolling, break the ice, undertake, launch, tackle, address oneself to, enter upon, Colloq get cracking: It's time you set about deciding what you want to do for a living. b attack, assail, assault, beat up: The gang set about him with clubs. 13 set against. a compare, evaluate, rate, balance, weigh, juxtapose, contrast: If you set his assets against his liabilities, he comes off pretty well. b antagonize, set at odds, alienate, divide, disunite: They succeeded in setting brother against brother. 14 set apart. a distinguish, separate, differentiate: His talent for language sets him apart from the others. b reserve, put or set aside, store, earmark, put away, lay away, set by, save, keep back: I set apart this piece of chocolate just for you. 15 set aside. a See 14 (b), above. b annul, cancel, nullify, declare or render null and void, reverse, repudiate, abrogate, quash, overturn, overrule, discard: The judge set aside the ruling of the lower court. 16 set back. put back, hinder, slow, hold up, retard, delay, impede, obstruct, stay, thwart, frustrate, inhibit: Completion has been set back because the materials failed to arrive. 17 set down. a write (down), put in writing, put down, record, register, mark or jot down, list: The secretary laboriously set down every word the official said. b ascribe, assign, attribute, impute, charge: She set down her failure to win promotion to prejudice on the part of management. c put down, land: See if you can set the plane down in that field over there. 18 set forth. a express, voice, propose, propound, state, offer, submit, suggest, broach, make a motion, move: Hugo set forth various proposals for the expansion of the company. b set out or off, put forth or out, begin, start (out), get under way, go, embark, sally forth, push off, depart, leave: After much hemming and hawing, Clive finally set forth on his big adventure. c set out, present, declare, describe, propose, state, articulate, enunciate: Hermione's theory is set forth in a lengthy report. 19 set in. begin, become established, arrive, come: Winter has set in quite early this year. 20 set off. a ignite, kindle, detonate, light, touch off, trigger, trip: That little spark set off an explosion that destroyed the entire plant. b dramatize, enhance, highlight, throw into relief, show (off), display: The engraving is beautifully set off by the new mat and frame. c See 18 (b), above. 21 set on. set upon, attack, assault, pounce on or upon, fall on or upon, fly at: You were set on by a pack of dogs in the park? 22 set out. a See 17 (b) and (c), above. b put out, lay out, arrange, dispose, display: The stallholders are all setting out their wares for the jewellery fair this morning. 23 set up. a build, put up, erect, assemble, construct, raise, elevate, put together, arrange, prepare: They are setting up the Christmas displays over the weekend. b start, begin, initiate, organize, establish, found; finance, fund, invest in, back, subsidize: The Crockers are setting up their third shop in Halsted. His father set him up in business. 24 set upon. attack, assault, ambush, beat up, fall upon, set about Colloq mug: The gang set upon him as he was getting home from work. --n. 25 collection, group, combination, number, grouping, assortment, selection, arrangement, series: Brackenhall bought a set of Hogarth etchings from the gallery. 26 clique, coterie, group, company, circle, ring, crowd, faction, sect, gang: The set she associates with think nothing of flying to Rio for the weekend. 27 kit, outfit, rig; equipment, apparatus: When I was ten, my father bought me a chemistry set. 28 setting, stage set or setting, scene, mise en scne, mounting, scenery: Hunter's set for Waiting for Godot won a prize. --adj. 29 fixed, established, determined, predetermined, arranged, prearranged, decided, customary, usual, normal, regular, agreed, conventional, habitual, definite, defined, firm, unvarying, unvaried, unchanging, wonted, rigid, strict, settled, scheduled: There is a set order in which these things are done. 30 stereotyped, trite, hackneyed, routine, standard, traditional, unchanged, unvaried, invariable: He made his set welcoming speech, as usual dripping with condescension, to the incoming classes. 31 prepared, ready, fit, primed: Are you all set to go?
setting n. mounting, scenery, background, backdrop, locale, location, surroundings, habitat, home, environs, environment, milieu, frame, context, site, placement; stage set or setting, mise en scne, scene: It is quite interesting to see how the animals live in their natural setting. The setting of Hardy's novels is in the West Country.
settlement n. 1 colony, outpost, post, camp, community, encampment, village, hamlet: The first colonists established a small settlement on the bank of the river. 2 colonization, settling, populating, settling: The settlement of the valley was mainly by Scandinavians. 3 agreement, rapprochement, resolution, adjustment, elimination, reconciliation, working-out, accommodation, arbitration, arrangement: Settlement of the dispute was supervised by a union representative. 4 payment, defrayal, discharge, liquidation, satisfaction, settling, quittance, clearing, clearance: The settlement of our debts is of paramount importance. 5 deciding, settling, setting, decision, conclusion, confirmation, affirmation, establishment, stabilization, determination, agreement, choice, selection: The only thing on his mind was the settlement of their holiday destination - should it be France or Thailand?
set-up n. 1 arrangement, system, organization, layout, regime, structure, make-up, composition, framework, frame, construction; conditions, circumstances: This set-up of interlocking directorships makes it difficult to see who answers to whom and who owns what. What, exactly, is the set-up between you and Eustace? 2 prearrangement, trap, Slang put-up job: As soon as I saw the police car, I knew we had walked into a set-up.
several adj. 1 some, a few, not too or very many, a handful or a sprinkling or a number of: Several people asked for you at the party last night. 2 various, sundry, a variety of, diverse, divers, different, respective, individual, distinct, disparate, particular, certain, specific, discrete, dissimilar: There are several stages one must go through before reaching the end.
severely adv. 1 acutely, seriously, badly, dangerously, dreadfully; permanently, fully, entirely: The accident left him severely handicapped. 2 strictly, harshly, rigorously, austerely, oppressively, relentlessly, mercilessly, cruelly, brutally, savagely, inhumanly, tyrannically: The boys were severely maltreated at the school. 3 sternly, forbiddingly, dourly, gloweringly, gravely, seriously, grimly, unsmilingly, soberly, coldly, coolly, austerely: Mrs Gladwin regarded me severely over the top of her pince-nez. 4 stringently, punitively, harshly, onerously, grievously, painfully: One is punished severely for the slightest infraction of the law. 5 dangerously, acutely, critically, dreadfully, awfully; mortally, fatally, terminally: I am afraid to say that your mother is severely ill. 6 starkly, plainly, barely, modestly, austerely, ascetically, monastically, primitively, simply, crudely, sparsely, sparely: The room is furnished a bit severely for my taste.
sew v. sew up, stitch, darn, mend, repair; sew on, attach, fasten; tack, baste, hem: Would you sew up a hole in my sweater for me and, while you're at it, would you mind sewing a button on my shirt?
sexual adj. 1 sex, reproductive, genital, procreative or procreant, sex, progenitive, propagative: Their current project is an investigation of sexual behaviour in young adults. 2 sensual, sensuous, erotic, carnal, fleshly, voluptuous, libidinous, earthy, bodily, physical, lustful, animal, Colloq sexy: They have a deep sexual attraction to one another.
shabby adj. 1 worn, dingy, faded, worn out, threadbare, tatty, tattered, frayed, raggedy, ragged, scruffy, dilapidated, ratty, dirty, bedraggled, mangy, run-down, seedy, (much) the worse for wear, Brit down at heel, US down at the heel(s), Colloq grubby, scrubby, gungy, tacky, US grungy: He was wearing a shabby suit and down-at-heel shoes. 2 poor, peremptory, unpleasant, nasty, disagreeable, mean, contemptuous, demeaning, grudging, ungenerous, impolite, rude, unfriendly, unhelpful, shoddy, ungentlemanly, unladylike, dishonourable, unworthy, scurvy, Colloq rotten: We were subjected to very shabby treatment at the office where we applied for work. 3 dilapidated, tumbledown, broken-down, shattered, battered, run-down, ramshackle, seedy, neglected, dirty, squalid, slum-like, slummy, Colloq beat-up, crummy: Sam lives in a shabby little house near the canal. 4 mean, stingy, ungenerous, niggardly, contemptible, low, lowly, base, mean-spirited, despicable, vile, uncouth, discreditable, inferior, disreputable, infamous, abominable, dishonourable, ignoble, atrocious, ignominious, odious, detestable, opprobrious: The shabby apology for their behaviour fell on deaf ears.
shackle n. 1 Often, shackles. fetter(s), leg-iron(s), chains, iron(s), bilboes, gyve(s), ball and chain, manacle(s), handcuff(s), restraint(s), bond(s), trammel(s), Colloq cuff(s), Slang bracelet(s), Brit darbies: When those shackles went round his ankles, he thought he'd never see them taken off. 2 Usually, shackles. restriction, restraint, deterrent, impediment, check, obstacle, obstruction, barrier, hindrance, bar, encumbrance: When shall we throw off the shackles of ignorant prejudice and see a truly free world? --v. 3 chain, fetter, manacle, handcuff, bind, restrain, tie, secure, truss, pinion, tether: He was shackled to the mast and whipped for disobedience. In this glorious spring weather I resent being shackled to a desk. 4 restrain, hold back, check, deter, hinder, discourage, hobble, handicap, restrict, curb, rein, bridle, control, fetter, inhibit, limit: Freedom of expression has been shackled during all those years of oppression.
shadow n. 1 darkness, gloom, dimness, dusk, obscurity: In the shadow I could make out the dim outline of a figure. 2 cover, screen, covering, shield, veil, curtain, protection, concealment: He stole past the sentry under the shadow of darkness. 3 hint, intimation, suggestion, suspicion, trace, vestige; remnant: I do not have the slightest shadow of doubt that she is telling the truth. Martin is merely a shadow of his former robust self. 4 cloud, blight, curse: A terrible shadow has fallen upon the family name. 5 See shade, 4, above. 6 companion, alter ego, comrade, Colloq sidekick, crony, chum, (bosom) pal, US (bosom) buddy: Boswell was Johnson's shadow for almost twenty years. --v. 7 follow, trail, track, dog, stalk, pursue, trace, Colloq tail, US and Canadian bird-dog: For a month detectives shadowed the suspect.
shady adj. 1 See shadowy, 1, above. 2 indistinct, indefinite, questionable, doubtful, uncertain, unreliable, suspicious, suspect, dubious, shifty, disreputable; devious, tricky, slippery, underhand(ed), unethical, unscrupulous, dishonourable, dishonest, Colloq fishy, crooked, bent, not (strictly) kosher: The minister's shady past will be revealed in the next issue of Tribune . She got involved with some shady character who had just come out of prison.
shaggy adj. hairy, woolly, unkempt, unshorn, uncut, hirsute, dishevelled, matted, untidy: They had a large black dog with shaggy hair and a great bushy tail.
shake-up n. reorganization, rearrangement, overhaul, revamp, restructuring, rehabilitation, make-over, realignment: With new owners you can expect a complete shake-up of top management.
shallow adj. 1 surface, skin-deep, superficial, thin, empty, flimsy, trivial, unimportant, slight, frivolous, idle, foolish: If you read only comic books, your thoughts are bound to be shallow. 2 Often, shallows. shoal(s), sand bar, sandbank, bank, shelf: This boat draws too much water to go fishing in the shallows.
shambles n. chaos, devastation, mess, disaster, Augean stables, pigsty, muddle, pigpen: I can't find anything in this shambles. The campaign degenerated into a complete shambles.
shame n. 1 embarrassment, humiliation, mortification, chagrin, ignominy, shamefacedness, loss of face, abashment: Watts felt abysmal shame at being discovered stealing from petty cash. 2 disgrace, ignominy, dishonour, disrepute, degradation, opprobrium, vilification, calumniation, infamy, obloquy, odium, contempt, scandal, denigration, loss of face, defamation, discredit, disesteem, disfavour, derogation, disparagement: To think that one knight's single act of cowardice in 1249 could have brought such shame to all his descendants. 3 pity, calamity, disaster, catastrophe; outrage: What a shame that Gerry failed the exam! 4 humility, modesty, (sense of) decency or decorum or propriety, respectability, decorousness, diffidence, shyness, coyness, prudishness, timidity, shamefacedness: The people who wear bathing suits like that obviously have no shame at all. 5 put to shame. a surpass, eclipse, outclass, overshadow, cast into the shade, outdo, outstrip, outshine, show up: Cochrane put his opponents to shame when they failed to score a single point against him. b See 8, below. --v. 6 embarrass, humiliate, mortify, humble, chagrin, disconcert, discountenance, put down, bring down, abash, chasten, Colloq bring (someone) down a peg, suppress, subdue: He hated the teacher because she had shamed him in front of his friends. 7 coerce, force, drive, bully, push; embarrass, humiliate, mortify, humble: The other boys shamed him into admitting that he had done it. 8 disgrace, embarrass, dishonour, scandalize, calumniate, degrade, debase, defame, discredit, stigmatize; smear, blacken, stain, taint, besmirch, tarnish: I am sure, son, that nothing you ever do would shame the family or me.
shameful adj. disgraceful, dishonourable, base, low, mean, vile, degrading, indecent, inglorious, deplorable, discreditable, corrupt, disreputable, infamous, ignominious, humiliating, embarrassing, mortifying, humbling, chastening, discomfiting, shaming, blameworthy, scandalous, outrageous, unprincipled: Quentin was known for his shameful behaviour both at school and in the army.
shape n. 1 form, figure, build, body, physique; lines, profile, silhouette, contours: I've never heard anyone complain about Marilyn Monroe's shape. 2 form, pattern, configuration, structure, aspect: The discussion is on the shape of things to come in the double-glazing trade. The new swimming-pool will be in the shape of a figure of eight. 3 form: Gradually, the shopping mall began to take shape. 4 state, condition, fettle, status, (state of) health, order, trim: When I saw Wayne yesterday, he seemed in very good shape indeed. 5 guise, disguise, form, appearance, likeness, image: Zeus visited Dane in the shape of a golden shower, and fathered Perseus on her. --v. 6 form, fashion, mould, cast, make, model, sculpture, sculpt; cut, carve, hew, hack, trim: Using primitive tools, they were able to shape the clay into bowls. The topiary shrubs were shaped into the forms of birds. 7 determine, give form to, control, govern, regulate, affect, condition, influence, decree, frame, define,: There are many factors that shape our future. 8 word, express, embody in words, put, formulate, form: Perhaps you could shape your question differently. 9 change, modify, remodel, accommodate, fit, adapt, adjust: The box was shaped especially for this bottle. 10 shape up. a take form, take shape, develop, evolve, proceed: The plan is shaping up very nicely. b conform, improve, progress, go or move or come along, show improvement, come up to snuff; behave better: Those who cannot shape up will have to ship out.
shapely adj. curvaceous, comely, well-proportioned, graceful, neat, well turned out, good-looking, pleasing; voluptuous, Colloq sexy: That slinky black dress certainly sets off her shapely figure to advantage.
sharp adj. 1 acute, keen; razor-sharp, knife-like, knife-edged, sharpened; pointed, needle-sharp: How do you keep the telescope in sharp focus? You need an extremely sharp knife for boning fish. This pencil isn't sharp enough. 2 abrupt, sudden, precipitous, sheer, vertical, marked: Just round the corner is a sharp dip in the road. There was a sharp rise in prices on the London Stock Exchange today. 3 keen, keen-witted, keen-minded, sharp-witted, shrewd, intelligent, smart, alert, bright, quick, agile, astute, clever, on the qui vive, penetrating, observant: Penny has a very sharp mind and a good eye for detail. 4 caustic, bitter, biting, acrid, hot, spicy, pungent, piquant, tangy, harsh, sour, acid, acidulous, tart: That lemon sorbet is a little too sharp for my taste. 5 acid, acidulous, acerbic, vitriolic, acrimonious, cutting, piquant, biting, bitter, unkind, strict, hurtful, spiteful, virulent, sarcastic, sardonic, trenchant, severe, scathing, malicious, nasty, malignant, venomous, poisonous: How does one escape the sharp comments of the critics? She was unprepared for the sharp exchange between the guests on her chat show. 6 clever, shrewd, artful, crafty, sly, cunning, foxy, calculating, unscrupulous, dishonest, Colloq sneaky, fly: There is evidence that the stock manipulators were engaged in very sharp practice. 7 high-pitched, shrill, penetrating, piercing, strident, harsh, ear-splitting, loud: Jane gave a sharp cry when she felt the ice break under her feet. 8 poignant, severe, cutting, intense, sudden, piercing, extreme, acute, fierce: Complaining of a sharp pain in his chest, he fell down. 9 chic, dapper, spruce, stylish, smart, fashionable, dressy, Colloq snappy, natty, classy, nifty, swell, swanky: If you want to see the latest collection of sharp clothes, go to the disco. --adv. 10 sharply, precisely, exactly, punctually, on the dot, Colloq on the button, US on the nose: Our appointment was for seven o'clock sharp. 11 sharply, suddenly, abruptly: I was pulled up sharp by her mention of the Black Rose. 12 sharply, alertly, attentively, vigilantly, watchfully, carefully: Listen sharp to what I tell you.
sharp-eyed adj. sharp-sighted, eagle-eyed, hawk-eyed, lynx-eyed, gimlet-eyed, keen-sighted, wide awake, wakeful, watchful, observant, (on the) alert, on the qui vive, wary, circumspect, Argus-eyed, cautious, careful: It takes quite a sharp-eyed person to check the accuracy of these circuits.
shatter v. 1 disintegrate, burst, pulverize, shiver, smash, demolish, break (to smithereens), splinter, fragment, fracture, dash to pieces: If you hadn't caught the vase, it would have shattered into a million pieces. 2 destroy, ruin, devastate, wreck, dash, crush, demolish, torpedo, undermine, blast: Any dreams he might have had of being published were shattered by the rejection letter. 3 upset, disturb, perturb, trouble, unnerve, overcome, overwhelm, crush, devastate, depress, deject, rattle, shake (up), unsettle, agitate, confound, confuse, stupefy, daze, stun, paralyse, Colloq throw: He was shattered by the news of Mill's death.
shed n. lean-to, shelter, structure, addition, penthouse, hut, shack, stall, booth, pen, cote, hutch: The tools are in the shed alongside the barn. shed v. 1 spill: Much blood has been shed in the name of freedom. 2 shine, spread, scatter, throw, cast, let fall, impart, release, focus, pour forth, let fall, radiate: Can you shed a little light on a matter that has puzzled me for years? 3 pour or stream or flow or surge or spill (out or forth), discharge, emanate, emit, drop; exude, ooze, weep: The clouds shed their snow and the world below turned white. Don't shed any tears over me. 4 cast off, doff, drop, abandon; moult, defoliate, desquamate, peel (off), flake (off): The trees shed their leaves. She rushed into the bathroom, shedding her clothes as she went.
sheepish adj. 1 timid, withdrawn, passive, docile, obedient, compliant, sheeplike, manipulable, tractable, pliable, meek, amenable: Dashworth might seem sheepish but he doesn't like to be bullied. 2 See shamefaced, above.
sheet n. 1 bed-sheet, crib-sheet, fitted sheet, flat sheet, US contour sheet: How often do you change the sheets on your bed? 2 leaf, folio, page: He tore a sheet of paper from the notebook. 3 pane, panel, plate, slab: The desk has a sheet of glass on top for protection. 4 lamina, lamination, layer, stratum, veneer, membrane: Plywood is made up of a number of thin sheets of pressed wood bonded together for strength. 5 area, expanse, stretch, layer, film, coat, coating, covering, blanket, cover, surface, skin, veneer: The sheet of ice on the road made driving hazardous. 6 newspaper, journal, paper, tabloid, gazette, daily, weekly, monthly, Colloq rag: Have you got a copy of the sheet that published the article about you?
shelter n. 1 protection, cover, refuge, asylum, sanctuary, haven, safety, security: During the hailstorm, we sought shelter in a cave. 2 cover, covering, concealment, screen, umbrella: Under the shelter of a moonless night, they stole quietly past the guards. 3 dwelling-place, habitation, home, dwelling, housing, accommodation: He feels that everyone is entitled to food, clothing, and shelter. --v. 4 protect, screen, shield, safeguard, guard, keep, secure, harbour: The parapet sheltered the guards from the icy wind. 5 seek or take refuge or shelter, hole up, Colloq lie or lay low: Mike sheltered in a mountain hut until the hue and cry died down.
shepherd v. lead, convoy, escort, conduct, guide, usher, take, pursue: I want you, personally, to shepherd Miss Jones through the plant. As this project requires special care, I shall shepherd it through personally.
shift v. 1 move, change position; edge, budge, relocate, rearrange, transpose, switch: Shift the picture slightly to the left. Marla shifted over closer to me on the bench. I almost broke my leg because you shifted the chair as I was about to sit on it. 2 Usually, shift for (oneself). manage, succeed, make do, look after, take care of, get or scrape by or along, fend for (oneself), make it, paddle one's own canoe: Cyril prefers to live alone and shift for himself. 3 sell, market, move: The object of advertising is to shift merchandise. --n. 4 hours, stint, schedule; workforce, relay, crew, cadre, staff, workers, squad, team, corps, group, party, gang: I prefer to work the morning shift. The night shift comes on at 1600. 5 change, movement, switch, transfer, swerve, deflection, veer: Owing to a wind shift, it became impossible to manoeuvre among the rocks. 6 smock, chemise, muu-muu; caftan or kaftan: A light cotton shift is the most comfortable thing to wear in such scorching weather.
shifty adj. tricky, artful, shrewd, canny, cunning, foxy, wily, sharp, devious, slick, evasive, smooth, slippery, scheming, designing, conniving, calculating, underhand(ed), conspiratorial, treacherous, traitorous, deceitful, deceiving, duplicitous, two-faced, Janus-faced, dishonest, crooked, untrustworthy, Colloq bent: The shifty scoundrel gave me a bad cheque and did a moonlight flit.
shimmer v. 1 shine, gleam, glow, glimmer, glint, glisten, ripple, flicker: The desert shimmered like a lake under the relentless sun. --n. 2 shimmering, shine, gleam, glow, glimmer, glint, gloss, flicker, light: As Julia slunk up to the microphone, the spotlight picked up the shimmer from her black satin gown.
shine v. 1 gleam, glow, shimmer, radiate, beam, glare, flare, glisten, glitter, coruscate, twinkle, sparkle, scintillate, glint, flash, flicker: The light of a candle shone from her window. The stars are shining brightly. I want that brass polished till it shines. 2 polish, burnish, rub (up or down), buff, brush, brighten: You'd best shine your shoes before going for the job interview. 3 excel, surpass, stand out, outshine, be outstanding or pre-eminent or excellent or prominent or conspicuous: She had shone at tennis from a very early age, and first entered Wimbledon when she was twelve. --n. 4 gleam, glow, shimmer, sparkle, brightness, radiance, gloss, lustre, sheen, glaze, patina: That shine was achieved with a little wax and elbow-grease. 5 take a shine to. like, be attracted to, take a fancy to, fancy: Her Great Dane has taken a shine to me and likes to sit on my lap.
ship n. 1 vessel, (ocean or passenger) liner, steamer, wind-jammer, cutter: The statue is dedicated to the men who go down to the sea in ships. --v. 2 send, move, ferry, transport, deliver, carry, dispatch or despatch, freight, haul, truck, cart: You need a specialized company that ships computers and other delicate equipment. 3 ship out. leave, depart, embark, set sail, take off, get out, quit, Slang scram: You'll ship out if you know what's good for you.
shirk v. avoid, evade, shun, dodge, get out of, shrink from, Colloq duck (out of), Brit skive, Military Brit scrimshank, US gold brick: Stop shirking your responsibilities and get to work! Is Callum shirking again?
shiver v. shatter, fragment, splinter, disintegrate, rupture, explode, implode, smash (to smithereens), crash: The light-bulb fell and shivered into a million fragments.
shocking adj. 1 surprising, astounding, astonishing, amazing, striking, stupefying, numbing, sudden, unexpected, electrifying, startling, Colloq mind-boggling, mind-blowing: It was shocking to see the way the neighbourhood had deteriorated. 2 disgusting, revolting, nauseating, nauseous, sickening, repulsive, abominable, hideous, horrible, horrifying, horrific, horrid, foul, loathsome, abhorrent, ghastly, hideous, unspeakable, dreadful, distressing, outrageous, appalling, monstrous, scandalous: The conditions in the concentration camps were shocking.
shoo interjection. 1 Scat!, Go away!, Away with you!, Be off!, Get out!, Begone!, Colloq Get lost!, Beat it!, Scram!: I shouted 'Shoo!' and the chickens scattered. --v. 2 Often, shoo away or off. scare off, frighten away, drive away, force to leave: She shoos away anyone who disturbs her while she is painting.
shop n. 1 store, boutique, department store: Would you stop at the shop and buy some lettuce? 2 workshop, machine shop: Henry gained experience in operating a lathe at my father's shop. --v. 3 betray, inform on or against, Slang peach on, rat on, snitch on, blow the whistle on: The police persuaded Luke to shop his accomplices in exchange for a lighter sentence. 4 shop for. buy, purchase, seek, look for, research: I've been shopping for a new dishwasher.
shortage n. deficit, deficiency, shortfall, dearth, scarcity, lack, want, paucity: They are predicting a shortage of water again this summer.
shorten v. 1 cut, curtail, cut off or down or short, reduce, diminish, trim; lop off, dock, prune; hem: Please shorten the time you spend in the bathroom in the mornings. This skirt has already been shortened. 2 condense, abridge, abbreviate, digest, compress: Can one shorten the book without losing too much of the characterization?
shortly adv. 1 soon, presently, anon, before long, in a (little) while, by and by, Archaic ere long: I'll see you shortly. 2 just, immediately, soon, right: We had dinner with him shortly before he went abroad. 3 abruptly, briefly, peremptorily, curtly, brusquely, sharply, tersely, testily, gruffly, rudely, tartly: 'Leave me alone', said Bill shortly.
short-staffed adj. undermanned, short-handed, understaffed: We are usually short-staffed during the summer because of the holiday schedules.
short-winded adj. short of or out of breath, winded, breathless, panting, huffing (and puffing), gasping (for air or for breath), Technical dyspnoeal: He is very short-winded because he smokes too much.
shoulder n. 1 side, edge, verge, margin; breakdown lane: If you have a flat tyre, drive onto the hard shoulder and phone for help. 2 give (someone) the cold shoulder. rebuff, snub, ostracize, send (someone) to Coventry, cold-shoulder, put (someone) down, reject, exclude, freeze (someone) out, shun, avoid, Colloq cut (dead): After his court case, they gave Nicholas the cold shoulder at his club. 3 put (one's or the) shoulder to the wheel. make every effort, make an effort, strive, work hard, pitch in, apply oneself, roll up one's sleeves, set or get to work, Colloq knuckle down, buckle down: If we put our shoulders to the wheel, we ought to be able to get our candidate elected. 4 rub shoulders (with). associate (with), hobnob (with), socialize (with), consort (with), mix (with), fraternize (with), keep company (with): Once in a while, she condescends to come down and rub shoulders with the common people. 5 shoulder to shoulder. side by side, united, as one, cooperatively, jointly, arm in arm, hand in hand, in partnership: If we fight shoulder to shoulder, we can defeat this menace and regain our freedom. 6 straight from the shoulder. directly, straightforwardly, candidly, frankly, honestly, openly, unabashedly, unashamedly, unambiguously, unequivocally, plainly, bluntly, man to man, (with) no holds barred, outright, Colloq without beating about the bush, without pulling (any) punches: I want to tell you, straight from the shoulder, Willie, you're the best pal in the world. --v. 7 push, shove, jostle, hustle, thrust aside, elbow, force: She shouldered everyone aside roughly to fight her way to the bargain counter. 8 support, carry, bear, take upon oneself, take on, accept, assume: Are you ready to shoulder the responsibilities of caring for a family?
show v. 1 display, present, expose, demonstrate, indicate, exhibit, manifest, (lay) bare, disclose, reveal, betray, make known, divulge, register, express, make clear or plain or manifest, elucidate, clarify, explain: Show your identification as you enter. Your persistent refusal to associate with Dominic shows how you feel very clearly. They showed me how the new machine works. 2 escort, accompany, conduct, usher, lead, guide, direct; steer: Please show Mr Sorenson to his table. 3 prove, demonstrate, confirm, corroborate, verify, substantiate, bear out, certify, authenticate: This signature shows that the will was signed personally by your father. 4 teach, instruct, tell, inform, let (someone) in on, give (someone) an idea of: Would you please show me how to use this washing-machine? 5 appear, become or be visible, peek through, can or may be seen: The floor was showing through a hole in the carpet. 6 exhibit, reveal, indicate, display, register: A thermometer shows the temperature, a barometer the atmospheric pressure. 7 make an appearance, appear, show up, arrive, come: Do you really think that the Jack Nicholson will show at the club tonight? 8 represent, symbolize, depict, portray, picture, illustrate: This drawing shows what happens to children who bite their fingernails. 9 present, play, put on, stage, screen; be (being) presented or played or playing or put on or staged or screened: They are showing The Maltese Falcon at the local cinema. What is showing there tomorrow? 10 grant, accord, bestow: They finally showed mercy and let the hostages go. 11 show off. make an exhibit or a spectacle of, flaunt, advertise, display, parade; pose, swagger, posture, boast, brag, US and Canadian grandstand: They invited us to show off their new house. Quilty shows off too much for my taste. 12 show up. a expose, give away, reveal: His collection of animal trophies shows him up for what he really is. b stand out, be conspicuous, be noticeable, contrast: The white dress shows up nicely against your suntan. c embarrass, (put to) shame, mortify, upstage, overshadow, outshine, eclipse: John only runs in the marathon to show me up. --n. 13 display, demonstration, exhibition, exposition, fair, presentation, Colloq expo: There will be a computer show at the convention centre next week. 14 production, presentation, drama, musical, entertainment: We flew to New York for a week to see a few Broadway shows. 15 ostentation, display, appearance, pretentiousness, pretension, affectation: Those paintings are there just for show, not because they enjoy art.
shower n. 1 sprinkle, sprinkling, drizzle: Scattered showers are predicted for this afternoon. 2 deluge, torrent, flood, stream, barrage, overflow, abundance, profusion: Showers of confetti rained on the parade from the offices. --v. 3 sprinkle, rain, pour, spray, bombard, fall, descend, drop: Debris and ash from the volcano showered down on the village. 4 lavish, inundate, overwhelm, heap, load (down): On return from her triumphant tour, Sylvia was showered with gifts and praise.
show-off n. braggart, exhibitionist, swaggerer, egotist, boaster, Colloq blowhard, windbag: Sit down and stop being such a show-off, Tetsworth.
shred n. 1 scrap, fragment, bit, tatter, sliver, snippet, rag, remnant, chip, piece; atom, trace, whit, grain, jot or tittle, scintilla, trace, hint, suggestion, iota, speck: We found shreds from his shirt caught on the thorn-bushes. There isn't a shred of evidence to suggest that she killed him. --v. 2 fragment, tear (up), tatter, rip (up); destroy, demolish; throw away, dispose of, scrap, US trash: At the news of the break-in, he dashed to his office and shredded the incriminating evidence.
shrewd adj. clever, smart, astute, cunning, canny, acute, sharp, keen-minded, keen, quick-witted, crafty, artful, manipulative, calculating, calculated, foxy, sly, wily, perceptive, percipient, perspicacious, discerning, wise, sage, sagacious, long-headed, intelligent, ingenious, Daedalian, inventive, resourceful: He is a shrewd politician, very good at knowing exactly what people want to hear him say.
shrill adj. high-pitched, ear-splitting, piercing, ear-piercing, sharp, piping, screeching, screechy, penetrating: She let out a shrill cry when she saw what had happened.
shrivel v. Often, shrivel up. shrink, wrinkle, pucker (up), curl (up), wizen, contract; wither, wilt, dry up, desiccate, dehydrate: The soil had dried up and all the plants had shrivelled.
shrubbery n. shrubs, planting(s), hedge(s), hedging, hedgerow, thicket, underbrush, brake, bracken, undergrowth, coppice or copse: The fox lay low in the shrubbery till the dogs flushed him out.
shuffle v. 1 mix (up), intermix, disarrange, rearrange, interfile, intersperse, jumble, confuse; shift (about), mess up, turn topsy-turvy, scatter, disorganize: I shall cut the cards after you have shuffled them. Osbert shuffled the papers on his desk. 2 scuff or drag (one's feet), scrape along, shamble: The boy shuffled into the headmaster's office, guilt written all over his face. 3 equivocate, hem and haw, bumble, shift, cavil, fence, be evasive or shifty, dodge, niggle, split hairs, quibble, prevaricate, Brit hum and haw, Colloq waffle: The suspect shuffled when asked the names of his accomplices. --n. 4 shamble, shambling, scuffling, scraping: Whenever he was lying, he did a funny little shuffle with his feet. 5 sidestep, evasion, subterfuge, trick, dodge, shift, prevarication, quibble, shuffling: Tell me what you've done with the money - and no shuffle!
shut v. 1 close, fasten, secure, shut up; lock, bolt, seal: Come in and shut the door. 2 shut down. close down, discontinue, cease, suspend, halt, leave off, shut up; switch or turn or shut off, stop: We shut down operations at the Enfield factory last week. Make sure you shut down the machinery before leaving. 3 shut in. a confine, seclude, keep in, pen, fence in, secure: We shut the dog in before we went out. b See 6, (a), below. 4 shut off. a switch or turn off, shut down, Colloq kill, douse, cut (off): They shut off the lights while I was shaving. b separate, isolate, seclude, segregate, sequester, bar, shut out, cut off, send to Coventry: The more violent cases are shut off in another wing. c close (off), shut (down): To save on heating, we shut off part of the house in the winter. 5 shut out. a exclude, eliminate, bar, debar, lock out, ban, keep out or away, disallow, prohibit: Aliens without work permits are shut out from employment. We shut out all hooligans and rowdies. b keep out, screen, exclude, block out, cut out: This window shade shuts out the direct sunlight. c screen, mask, hide, conceal, veil, cover: The house is shut out from view by the hedge. 6 shut up. a confine, shut in, coop (up), cage (in), bottle up, box in; imprison, jail, incarcerate, intern, immure: People suspected of being subversives were shut up during the war. b silence, keep quiet, stifle, mute, gag, shush, Chiefly Brit quieten: As soon as Colin wants to say something, Sidonie shuts him up. c See 1, above. d See 2, above. --adj. 7 closed (up), sealed (up), locked (up), bolted, fastened: There is not much hope of penetrating their shut minds on this issue.
shy adj. 1 diffident, coy, bashful, retiring, withdrawn, withdrawing, reserved, timid, meek, modest, sheepish, unconfident, self-conscious, introverted, nervous, apprehensive, timorous, Rare verecund: Casey is quite shy and you have to draw him out gently. 2 timorous, cautious, wary, chary, leery, guarded, afraid, fearful, frightened, anxious, worried, suspicious, distrustful, cowardly, craven, uncourageous: The local people are shy of anyone or anything unfamiliar. 3 missing, lacking, deficient in, short of: The shipment is shy a few dozen shoelaces we ordered. --adv. 4 fight shy of. avoid, be unwilling or reluctant or averse or loath or loth or disinclined or not disposed; be wary or cautious or watchful: The children fight shy of talking to strangers.
sicken v. 1 fall ill, take sick, contract, be stricken by, come down with or catch something or a bug, fail, weaken: After he seemed to be recovering so well, he suddenly sickened and died. 2 make ill or sick, afflict, affect, disgust, nauseate, turn one's stomach, upset, appal, shock, repel, revolt, repulse, offend, make one's gorge rise; put out: The scene in the abattoir sickened me.
side n. 1 Sometimes, sides. flank(s), edge(s), verge, margin(s), rim, brim, brink, border(s); bank; boundary or boundaries, perimeter, periphery, limit(s): This side of the road is in West Sussex, the other in East Sussex. The sides of the swimming-pool are tiled. 2 surface, face, plane; facet: The smallest possible number of sides of a pyramid is four. 3 faction, interest, party, part, sect, camp, (point of) view, viewpoint, aspect, opinion, standpoint, stand, cause, angle, position, attitude, school, philosophy: Which side do you support in the controversy? 4 team; string, squad; American football and Association Football or Soccer and Cricket eleven, Australian Rules football eighteen, Baseball nine, Basketball five, Gaelic football and Rugby Union fifteen, Rugby League thirteen: Whichever side Craig is on seems likely to win. The local side is now coming out onto the field. 5 affectation, pretension, haughtiness, arrogance, insolence, pretentiousness, airs: Chauncy puts on a bit too much side for my taste. 6 side by side. together, jointly, cheek by jowl: These paintings should not have been hung side by side. 7 take sides. show preference, be partial, show favouritism: A judge must avoid taking sides. --adj. 8 secondary, incidental, subordinate, tangential, subsidiary, indirect, ancillary, marginal, lesser, minor, unimportant, inconsequential, inconsiderable, insignificant: The main point is that he refuses to cooperate, and his reasons are entirely a side issue. 9 auxiliary, secondary: We live in a quiet side-road just off the High Street. --v. 10 side with. take sides with, show preference for, be partial to, show favouritism to or for, support, favour, prefer, go in or along with, join ((up) with), ally with, be or become allied with, Colloq US throw in with, team up with: You can be sure that Kenneth will always side with the favourite candidate.
sidestep v. avoid, dodge, circumvent, skirt, evade, shun, steer clear of, Colloq duck: The minister neatly sidestepped all questions about her retirement.
sidewalk n. walk, Chiefly Brit pavement, footpath, footway: You may play on the sidewalk, but don't you dare step into the street.
siege n. 1 blockade, encirclement, beleaguerment, besiegement: The siege of Troy lasted ten years. --v. 2 lay siege to, besiege, blockade, beleaguer, cordon off, encircle, box or pen or shut in, bottle up: They sieged the city and the inhabitants surrendered when they ran out of food and water.
sigh v. 1 breathe, sough; suspire: Troilus sighed forth his soul to the tent where sleeping Cressid lay. 2 sigh for. bemoan, lament or mourn or grieve or weep for, bewail; yearn or pine for: Now and then, all of us sigh for the good old days. --n. 3 murmur, exhalation, sound; suspiration: I gave a sigh of relief as the train left the station.
sign n. 1 token, symbol, indication, mark, signal, indicator; notice: I interpreted the shouts of the crowd as a sign that I had won the race. 2 movement, gesture, motion, signal, cue, gesticulation: She made a sign motioning me to come over. 3 trace, indication, evidence, mark, clue, hint, suggestion, vestige: She waited for an hour but there was no sign of him. 4 device, mark, symbol, representation, emblem, trade mark, badge, brand, stamp, seal, ideogram, ideograph, lexigram, phonogram, grapheme, hieroglyph, cartouche, rebus, logo(type), colophon, ensign, standard, banner, flag; monogram, initials, cipher or cypher: Sir Roger fought under the sign of a rampant lion. 5 signboard, advertisement, placard, poster, US broadside; shingle, notice, announcement: You can't miss the huge supermarket sign at the corner. 6 omen, augury, warning, forewarning, foreboding, portent, indication, writing on the wall, prophecy, prognostication, foreshadowing: We took the rumbling as a sign of an imminent earthquake. --v. 7 autograph, put one's signature on or to, inscribe, countersign, endorse, witness, put or set one's hand to, mark; sign on the dotted line; Colloq US put one's John Hancock on or to: I have already signed the petition, have you? The painting is valueless unless signed by the artist. 8 sign away. forgo, relinquish, give up, abandon, abandon or quit claim to, waive, release, surrender, dispose of, sacrifice, get rid of: With one stroke of the pen, he signed away most of his fortune. 9 sign off. close down, discontinue (broadcasting, writing a letter, etc): It is midnight, time for us to sign off till tomorrow. 10 sign on or up. a enrol, enlist, sign up (for), register, volunteer, join (up), contract: I signed on to be a bodyguard, not a nursemaid. b enrol, enlist, hire, employ, put under contract, retain, engage, take on, Colloq take on board, bring aboard: We signed up three new engineers this week. 11 sign over. assign, consign, transfer, make over, deliver, give, donate, present, dispose of, turn over: Aunt June was persuaded to sign over the ownership of the business to her nephews.
significance n. 1 meaning, sense, signification, denotation, message, idea, point, import, purport, implication, portent, content, pith, essence; gist, drift, vein, impression, connotation: The significance of words like God and love is different for almost everyone who uses them. 2 importance, weight, weightiness, consequence, moment, relevance, value: The significance of the agreement lay not in its wording but in the fact that it was drawn up at all.
signify v. 1 sign, signal, indicate, communicate, make known, convey, symbolize, betoken, represent, express, announce, declare, denote, say, mean, specify; connote, intimate, suggest, reveal, disclose, impart: She signified her agreement by a nod. What does the phrase 'pursuit of happiness' signify to you? 2 matter, count, be significant or important or consequential, be of significance or of importance or of consequence, carry weight, impress, stand out, deserve or merit consideration: It signifies little that they were found innocent of a crime we all believe they committed.
silent adj. 1 quiet, still, soundless, noiseless, tranquil, hushed, shushed, mute; calm, serene, placid, peaceful, pacific, unagitated, unruffled, untroubled, undisturbed, Literary stilly: After the children left the house fell silent. Not a mouse stirred in the silent city. 2 uncommunicative, mute, close-mouthed, taciturn, reticent, reserved, mum, tight-lipped, secretive: Millie told me a great deal about her children but was silent on the subject of her own activities. 3 unspeaking, unspoken, mute, unexpressed, tacit, understood, implicit, implied, unstated, unsaid: There is a silent agreement among the islanders not to reveal where the whisky is hidden. 4 inactive, non-participating, passive, quiescent, Brit sleeping: Although John runs the company, he has several silent partners. 5 unpronounced, unuttered, not sounded, Technical aphonic: The g in sign is silent, like the k in know and the l in could .
silhouette n. outline, profile, contour, form, figure, shape, shadow, configuration, periphery, perimeter: I could see the silhouette of a person on the window-blind.
silly adj. 1 senseless, nonsensical, absurd, ridiculous, ludicrous, laughable, risible, asinine, inane, preposterous, idiotic, childish, puerile, foolish, foolhardy, irresponsible, unreasonable, illogical, irrational, pointless, fatuous, stupid, unwise, imbecilic, crazy, mad, insane: It would be silly to pay for it if you can get it for nothing. 2 stunned, stupefied, daze, giddy, dizzy, muzzy, benumbed: Culley said something rude and the girl knocked him silly with a karate chop. --n. 3 fool, nincompoop, idiot, dunce, ninny, halfwit, simpleton, numskull or numbskull, dim-wit, booby, dolt, jackass, twit, dolt, blockhead, bonehead, nitwit, ignoramus, clod, US thimble-wit, Colloq dope, dummy, knuckle-head, goose, drip, silly billy, Brit clot, Slang US and Canadian jerk, nerd: Warren is such a silly to spend so much money on a girl who cares nothing for him.
silver n. 1 silverware, sterling, (silver) plate; cutlery, US flatware; hollowware: Guests are coming so I'll have to polish the silver. 2 white, greyish, whitish-grey, greyish-white, grey: When your hair has turned to silver, I will love you just the same. --adj. 3 silvery, shiny, shining, polished, burnished, lustrous, pearly, nacreous, bright, gleaming, Literary or heraldry argent; white: The moon's silver crescent hung low in the sky. Her hair is more silver than grey. 4 silvery, silver-toned, silver-tongued, sweet, pretty, euphonious, melodious, mellifluous, mellifluent, dulcet, musical: The silver tones of the muezzin echoed in the streets, calling the faithful to prayer.
simmer v. 1 seethe, stew, cook, boil, bubble: A huge cauldron of soup simmered on the fire. 2 chafe, seethe, stew, steam, smoulder, fume, rage, burn, Colloq US do a slow burn: Father is still simmering because you scratched his car. 3 simmer down. calm or cool down, cool off, calm oneself, become quiet, control oneself, get control of or over oneself, Chiefly Brit quieten down, Slang cool it: Yesterday he was in a towering rage, but he has simmered down a bit today.
simplicity n. 1 uncomplicatedness; understandability, comprehensibility, lucidity, straightforwardness, clarity, intelligibility, decipherability: Consider the simplicity of some life forms in contrast to the complexity of others. The simplicity of the Bible can be deceptive. 2 plainness, cleanness, clarity, severity, starkness, austereness, asceticism, restraint, bareness, purity: She prefers the simplicity of classical or very modern design to baroque and rococo clutter. 3 sincerity, openness, artlessness, candour, guilelessness, frankness, unsophisticatedness, ingenuousness, straightforwardness, forthrightness, unaffectedness, unpretentiousness, modesty, navety; plainness, directness, inelegance, rusticity, pastoralism: Many have been charmed by the simplicity of the local folk art. 4 stupidity, slow-wittedness, thickheadedness, simple-mindedness, feeble-mindedness, oafishness, cloddishness, obtuseness, dullness, dull-wittedness, witlessness, halfwittedness, imbecility, brainlessness: The simplicity of some of those yokels is incredible.
simply adv. 1 merely, barely, purely, only, solely, just, entirely, fully, totally, wholly, altogether, absolutely, really: Is it true that they met regularly simply to discuss politics? 2 totally, completely, altogether, entirely, just, plainly, obviously, really, unreservedly, unqualifiedly: If you believe that, you're simply too stupid for words! 3 navely, artlessly, guilelessly, openly, innocently, ingenuously, unaffectedly, unpretentiously, plainly, naturally: He asked her very simply what she did as a 'working girl'. 4 plainly, modestly, starkly, severely, sparely, sparsely, austerely, ascetically: His home is simply furnished, without paintings or any other decoration. 5 distinctly, unambiguously, plainly, obviously, unmistakably or unmistakeably: The instructions must be written simply so that they are understandable to anyone.
sin n. 1 trespass, transgression, offence, wrong, impiety, misdeed, profanation, desecration, iniquity, evil, devilry, sacrilege, crime, infraction, misdeed, dereliction, infringement, violation, misdemeanour, fault, foible, peccadillo: How many sins have been committed in the name of righteousness! It's a sin to tell a lie. The seven deadly sins are anger, covetousness, envy, gluttony, lust, pride, and sloth. 2 wickedness, sinfulness, vice, corruption, ungodliness, badness, evil, wrongfulness, iniquity, iniquitousness, immorality, depravity, impiety, irreverence, impiousness, sacrilege: His brother Edmund was conceived in sin, and sin ruled his entire life. --v. 3 transgress, offend, fall (from grace), lapse, go wrong, stray, go astray, err, Biblical or archaic trespass: Strictly speaking, we can sin only against God.
sincerely adv. truly, honestly, really, wholeheartedly, candidly, frankly, unequivocally, seriously, earnestly, genuinely, deeply, fervently: When they say they love each other, they mean it sincerely.
sinew n. 1 ligament, tendon; muscle, thew: After the climb, I ached in every sinew. 2 Usually, sinews. strength, force, power, energy, brawn, vigour, might, stamina, vitality: The sinews of his argument were considerably weakened by her disarming candour.
sinful adj. corrupt, evil, wicked, bad, wrong, wrongful, iniquitous, vile, base, profane, immoral, profligate, depraved, criminal, sacrilegious, ungodly, unholy, demonic, irreligious, impious, irreverent: Anything that you like as much as you like chocolate must be sinful. They would never condone such sinful behaviour in our church.
singe v. char, blacken, sear, scorch, burn: Unfortunately, I singed the tail of my shirt while ironing it.
single adj. 1 unmarried, unwed, unattached, free; celibate: She remained single till she was twenty-two. 2 singular, individual, distinct, solitary; one, only, sole, lone, unique, isolated: There wasn't a single person there who could think for himself. A single shot rang out. 3 separate, distinct, individual, solitary: Every single hair is rooted in its follicle. --v. 4 single out. select, choose, pick, separate, take or put or set aside or apart, distinguish, cull, segregate, fix or fasten on: Why was she singled out for special treatment? single-handed adj. 1 solo, lone, solitary, independent, unaided, unassisted: Chichester was the first winner of the single-handed transatlantic sailing race. --adv. 2 single-handedly, by oneself, alone, solo, on one's own, independently: He sailed round the world single-handed.
singly adv. one at a time, separately, individually, one by one, successively, one after the other, seriatim: Taken singly, the facts are not hard to assimilate.
singularity n. 1 individuality, distinctiveness, uniqueness, idiosyncrasy: Personality demonstrates its singularity even in handwriting. 2 eccentricity, peculiarity, strangeness, oddness, queerness, outlandishness, uncommonness: The singularity of the marriage ceremony among these tribes was often remarked on by anthropologists. 3 Technical black hole: The ultimate collapse of the star results, theoretically, in a singularity.
sink v. 1 founder, submerge, go down, go under, plunge, descend, be engulfed: The ship was struck below the water-line and sank in minutes. 2 subside, cave in, collapse, subside, settle, drop, fall in, go down, slip away: The earth suddenly sank beneath our feet. 3 descend, go down, drop, fall, move down or downward(s), go down to or on: The parachute slowly sank to the ground. When he saw the statue move, he sank to his knees, terrified. 4 decline, weaken, worsen, degenerate, subside, deteriorate, flag, fail, diminish, die, expire; languish; Colloq go downhill: Grandfather, sinking fast, summoned the family to his bedside. 5 disappear, vanish, fade away, evaporate; set, go down, descend, drop: After a meteoric rise, many rock stars sink into oblivion. As the sun sank slowly in the west, we returned to our hotel to reminisce about our day at the pyramids. 6 settle, precipitate, descend, drop: After a few minutes, the sand sinks to the bottom. 7 bore, put down, drill, dig, excavate, drive: A special shaft will be sunk just for ventilating the mine. 8 submerge, immerse, plunge: He sank his hand deep into the mud and came up with a small box. 9 stoop, bend, get, go, lower or humble oneself: I never dreamt that he would sink so low as to beg in the streets. 10 invest, venture, risk, put: He sank his life's savings into his son's business, only to see it go bankrupt. 11 sink in. be understood, penetrate, register, make an impression on, get through to: How many times do I have to tell you in order for it to sink in? --n. 12 basin, wash-basin, wash-bowl, lavabo; Church font, stoup, piscina: The kitchen has a large double sink. 13 cesspool, cesspit, pit, hell-hole, den of iniquity, sink-hole, Colloq dive: We found him playing piano in some sink frequented by the worst element of society.
sinner n. transgressor, wrongdoer, miscreant, offender, evil-doer, malefactor, reprobate, Biblical or archaic trespasser: Few people nowadays believe that sinners are punished in hell for all eternity.
siren n. 1 whistle, warble, wailer, horn, foghorn; signal, alarm, warning, alert, tocsin: The air raid siren sounded and everyone ran for shelter. 2 temptress, seductress, enchantress, charmer, sorceress, femme fatale, Circe, Lorelei, Colloq vamp, US mantrap: Have you seen the latest siren to whom John has fallen prey?
sit v. 1 be seated, settle, sit down, take a seat, rest, Colloq take the weight or a load off one's feet: Come in and sit with me for a while. If you sit on that chair it will break. 2 hold a session, be in session, assemble, meet, convene; gather, get together: The Supreme Court of the United States will be sitting next week. 3 Often, sit on. have or hold or occupy a seat (on), participate (in), be a member (of): Kathy sits on the board of directors. 4 remain, stay, lie, rest; relax, mark time, abide, dwell: Let the dough sit a while to rise. Anita sat in Vienna awaiting her instructions. 5 seat, contain, hold, accommodate, have seats or seating for, have room or space or capacity for seating: The auditorium sits only 600. 6 sit in. a Often, sit in on. play, join (in), participate (in), take part (in); observe, watch: Mind if I sit in on your poker game? We invited Mary Lou to sit in during our discussion. b substitute, fill in, stand in, double, Colloq cover, sub, US pinch-hit: Mary Lou often sat in for our pianist if he had another gig. 7 sit out. wait out, outwait, outstay, outlast, outlive, last through, live through: Will sat out endless dances. He sat out the whole evening merely waiting to walk home with Lily. 8 sit tight. wait, hang back, hold back, be patient, bide (one's) time, play a waiting game, take no action, delay, temporize, Colloq hold (one's) horses: Just sit tight till you hear from them - don't jump the gun. 9 sit up. awaken, pay attention, notice, become alert or interested or concerned: Jennie's performance in the hurdles made many track coaches sit up. 10 sit (with). Often, sit well or right (with). agree with, be agreeable to; seem, appear, look: The way Ashton handled the matter did not sit well with the directors.
situate v. place in a position or situation or location, place, position, locate, set, spot, put, install or instal: Harwood is very well situated to learn what the high command is planning. The greenhouse should be situated on the south side of the house.
size n. 1 magnitude, largeness, bigness, bulk, extent, scope, range, dimensions, proportions, measurement(s), expanse, area, square footage, volume, mass, weight; hugeness, immensity, greatness, vastness, enormousness: How do astronomers determine the distance and size of stellar objects? A shape of extraordinary size suddenly loomed up in the darkness. --v. 2 dimension, measure: The furnishings are sized in proportion to these miniature room displays. 3 size up. assess, judge, evaluate, measure, take the measure of, appraise, assay, make an estimate of, estimate, value, gauge, rate: She looked him up and down, sizing him up as a prospective husband.
sketchy adj. cursory, superficial, incomplete, patchy, rough, perfunctory, skimpy, imperfect, crude, hasty, hurried, vague, ill-defined, fuzzy, indistinct, inexact, imprecise, unrefined, unpolished, rough-hewn, unfinished: We received only sketchy reports of what was going on in the capital. This will do as a sketchy outline, but eventually the details will need to be filled in.
skill n. 1 talent, ability, aptitude, expertness, expertise, facility, skilfulness, art, artistry, cleverness, adeptness, adroitness, mastery, dexterity, handiness, ingenuity, experience, proficiency, finesse, knack, quickness, deftness, technique: It requires great skill to operate this machine. 2 accomplishment, forte, strength, gift, capability, know-how, faculty: Her skill is in teaching others how to be skilful sales people.
skin n. 1 epidermis, derma, integument, hide, pelt, fleece, fell: Her skin reddens in the sun. How many skins are needed to make a coat? 2 coat, film, coating, crust, incrustation, husk, peel, rind, outside, shell, pellicle, veneer, outer layer, lamina, overlay: The frame is first covered with a tough plastic skin to make it waterproof. --v. 3 flay, strip, decorticate, excoriate: I shall skin that boy alive if I catch him! 4 peel, hull, husk, shell: This machine skins the fruit automatically. 5 abrade, scrape, graze, bark: She skinned her knee on the edge of the coffee table.
skinny adj. thin, underweight, gaunt, bony, scraggy, lank, lanky, gangly, gangling, raw-boned, meagre, spare, emaciated, half-starved, undernourished, spare, pinched, hollow-cheeked, wasted, shrunken: Two skinny children were clinging to their mother's skirts.
skipper n. captain, master, commander; boss, leader, chief: The skipper gave orders to put him in irons.
sky n. 1 heaven(s), skies, arch or vault of heaven, firmament, (wild) blue (yonder), ether, Archaic or literary welkin, empyrean, azure: The dour, overcast sky gave the bleak moor a chilling sense of foreboding. 2 to the skies. overly, excessively, extravagantly, fulsomely, profusely, inordinately, highly: If I praise him to the skies people will get the idea that I benefit from his success.
slack adj. 1 remiss, careless, indolent, negligent, lax, lazy, idle, neglectful, delinquent, inattentive, otiose, dilatory, cunctatory, laggard, easygoing, slothful, sluggish, lethargic, shiftless, do-nothing, fainant, Colloq asleep at the switch or the wheel, asleep on the job: Production has fallen off because the workers are getting slack. 2 loose, flabby, flaccid, soft, limp, baggy, drooping, droopy, bagging, sagging, floppy: The flag hung down, slack in the still air. --v. 3 Often, slack or slacken off or up. a let go, let run, let loose, release, slacken, loose, loosen, relax, ease (out or off), let up (on): Slack off the stern line a bit. b slow (down or up), delay, reduce speed, tire, decline, decrease, diminish, moderate, abate, weaken: Barnes could not keep up his terrific pace and is beginning to slack off. Business has slackened off since Christmas. 4 neglect, shirk, Colloq Brit skive (off), US goof off, Chiefly military gold-brick, Taboo slang US fuck the dog: Don't let the foreman find you slacking. --n. 5 lull, pause, inactivity, cut-back, lessening, reduction, abatement, drop-off, downturn, diminution, decline, fall-off, decrease, dwindling: How do you compensate for the slack in sales of ski equipment during the summer? 6 room, looseness, slackness, play, give: There's too much slack in that mooring line.
slake v. satisfy, quench, gratify, allay, assuage, ease, relieve: Nothing would slake my thirst better right now than a pint of ice-cold lager.
slander n. 1 defamation (of character), calumny, obloquy, misrepresentation, slur, vilification; libel: He spread lies about me and I am suing him for slander. --v. 2 defame, calumniate, disparage, slur, traduce, malign, smear, vilify, decry; libel: He must be stopped from slandering people and ruining their reputations.
slant n. 1 angle, viewpoint, (point of) view, standpoint, approach, twist, idea, aspect, attitude: The article reflects a new slant on why governments are sometimes out of touch with the electorate. 2 bias, prejudice, partiality, one-sidedness, turn, bent: Carla's reporting has a feminist slant which occasionally distorts the facts. 3 slope, incline, tilt, ramp, gradient, pitch, lean, leaning, deflection, angle, rake, cant, camber: A window sill normally has an outward slant. The road has a slant downwards to the right on right-hand curves. --v. 4 tilt, angle, incline, pitch, cant, slope, bend, lean, list, tip, bevel, shelve: The land slants downwards near the lake. Notice how his writing slants upwards at the ends of the lines. Cut the edges to slant outwards. 5 bend, distort, deviate, twist, warp, colour, weight, bias: The editor slanted the story to put the minister in a favourable light.
slash v. 1 cut, gash, hack, score, slit, knife, lacerate; wound; scar: The guide slashed away at the undergrowth with his machete. 2 lash, whip, scourge, flog, beat, horsewhip, flail, flagellate, flay, lambaste, thrash, beat: In those days, a convicted felon was beaten and slashed in front of a crowd in the market-place. 3 cut, reduce, decrease, drop, mark down, trim, lower: Prices were slashed to clear out last season's styles. --n. 4 cut, gash, incision, slit, slice, gouge, rent, rip, score, laceration: There is a slash in each sleeve that reveals the colourful fabric underneath. 5 cut, reduction, decrease, mark-down: The department stores continued their price slashes to the end of January.
slaughter n. 1 butchery, butchering, Rare abattage: Most of the cattle were sent for slaughter. 2 massacre, killing, bloodshed, blood bath, murder, homicide, manslaughter, carnage, extermination, execution, liquidation, slaying, blood-letting, butchery, pogrom, genocide, mass murder or execution or extermination, sacrifice, hecatomb: 1930 to 1945 saw the slaughter of millions in Europe and the Far East. --v. 3 butcher, kill, murder, slay, execute, exterminate, massacre, put to the sword, put to death, liquidate, destroy: How many more must be slaughtered before war is made obsolete? 4 defeat, beat, win (out) over, vanquish, overcome, overwhelm, smash, crush, thrash, destroy, rout, upset, trounce, Colloq clobber: Our school soccer team slaughtered the visitors 10--0.
slaver v. 1 drool, salivate, slobber, drivel, dribble, spit, Dialect slabber: The wolf opened its slavering jaws. --n. 2 drool, saliva, drivel, dribble, spit, spittle, Dialect slabber: The slaver formed on his lips as he raged on. 3 nonsense, drivel, rubbish, twaddle, piffle: The slaver spewed forth by the critics set her teeth on edge.
slavery n. 1 enslavement, bondage, thraldom, thrall, enthralment, servitude, serfdom, vassalage, yoke; subjugation, captivity, Historical US peculiar institution: All of those ancient cultures that we venerate practised slavery. 2 slave-trade, blackbirding: No one ever mentions that the family fortune had been made from slavery. 3 toil, moil, drudgery, travail, grind, strain, (hard) labour: She remembered the years of slavery she had spent at the kitchen sink.
sleek adj. 1 smooth, slick, velvety, lustrous, shiny, shining, glossy, silky, silken: The seals' sleek fur glistened in the sunlight. 2 graceful, trim, streamlined: For her birthday Edmund gave her a sleek convertible. 3 suave, unctuous, slimy, fawning, oily, specious, hypocritical, Chiefly Brit smarmy: His explanations sounded plausible enough, but we soon found out what a sleek rogue he really was.
sleepless adj. 1 restless, wakeful, insomniac, disturbed: Your mother and I spent a sleepless night worrying about you. 2 alert, watchful, vigilant, unsleeping: Mark's wife kept a sleepless vigil at his bedside.
sleepy adj. 1 drowsy, somnolent, tired, nodding, dozy, lethargic, torpid, slumberous, sluggish, oscitant; weary, fatigued, exhausted, Colloq dead on one's feet, (knocked) out, beat, US and Canadian pooped: All that exercise has made me sleepy. 2 boring, inactive, dull, quiet, soporific, slow, sluggish: He grew up in a sleepy little village in the Outer Hebrides.
sleuth n. detective, (private) detective, (private) investigator, US PI, Colloq private eye, Sherlock, snoop, Brit tec or 'tec, US hawkshaw, Slang US dick, shamus, US and Canadian gumshoe: Dissatisfied with the progress of the police, we hired a private sleuth to investigate the theft.
slick adj. 1 smooth, sleek, glossy, silky, silken, shiny, shining, glassy, slippery: His slick hair looked as if it had been greased. 2 smooth, urbane, suave, smooth-spoken, glib, smug, plausible; sycophantic, unctuous, Colloq smarmy: Thomas was a slick operator and managed to worm his way into a position of power. 3 smooth, clever, skilful, adroit, dexterous, professional, ingenious, imaginative, inventive, creative, Colloq neat: The performance was slick and well-rehearsed. 4 superficial, shallow, meretricious, specious, glib: They have made a lot of money publishing slick magazines for the yuppy market. --v. 5 Often, slick down. smooth, plaster down, grease, oil: He likes his hair slicked down to look like Valentino's.
slide v. 1 glide, slip; coast, skim, glissade, skate, plane, skid, toboggan, slither: The drawer slid smoothly out on its runners. Terry came sliding down the icy hill, arms and legs flailing. 2 creep, steal, slip, slink, move: My contact slid into the seat beside me and slipped me a note. 3 decline, decrease, drop, fall: Shares slid to an all-time low on this morning's market. 4 let slide. forget, ignore, neglect, gloss or pass over, pay no heed or mind (to): When Mr Bartlett borrowed my lawnmower, I let the matter slide till he began to think of it as his own, and offered to lend it to me! --n. 5 landslide, earth-slip, avalanche, mud-slide: A dozen houses were destroyed in the slides caused by the recent torrential rains.
slightly adv. a little, somewhat, to a certain or slight or minor extent or degree or measure, marginally: Yes, I do feel slightly better, thank you. slim adj. 1 See slender, 1, above. 2 See slender, 2, 3, above. --v. 3 reduce, lose or shed weight, diet, Chiefly US slenderize: I really must slim if I am to fit into my summer clothes.
sling v. 1 toss, throw, cast, propel, hurl, shy, fling, fire, shoot, pitch, let fly, launch, heave, lob, Colloq chuck: He slung his briefcase onto the desk and flopped into a chair. --n. 2 slingshot, catapult, trebuchet or trebucket: It is said that David slew Goliath with a stone from his sling. 3 support, strap, band; belt: The doctor ordered him to keep his sprained arm in a sling for a few days. The military rifles are supplied with leather slings.
slip v. 1 slide, skid, glide, slither: Waxing the runners helps the sleigh slip along more easily. 2 stumble, lose one's footing or balance, miss one's footing, trip; fall, tumble: Mother slipped on the ice but luckily didn't fall down. 3 Often, slip up. err, blunder, make a mistake, miscalculate, go wrong, botch (up), Slang screw up: He slipped up again by failing to give you your telephone messages. 4 let slip. reveal, divulge, blurt out, leak, let out, disclose, expose, Colloq come out with, blab: He accidentally let slip the news that you were back in town. 5 slip away or by. pass, elapse, vanish, go by: The hours just slipped away when I was with Irena. 6 slip away or off or out. escape, disappear, leave, vanish, steal, go or run away or off or out, break away, get away, give (someone) the slip; sneak away or off or out: After the speech, he slipped away before we could interview him. 7 slip in. enter, get in, sneak in; put in: A field mouse slipped in past the wire netting. I managed to slip in my suggestion before the meeting was adjourned. --n. 8 blunder, error, mistake, fault, oversight, slip of the tongue or pen, inadvertence, indiscretion, impropriety, transgression, peccadillo, faux pas, Colloq slip-up, Chiefly US blooper, Slang Brit boob, bloomer: She made so many slips in the letter that she had to retype it.
slippery adj. 1 slick, sleek, slimy, icy, glassy, smooth, greasy, oily, lubricated, Colloq skiddy: Be careful! Those stairs can be slippery when they're wet. 2 evasive, devious, shifty, unreliable, undependable, questionable, untrustworthy, dishonest, treacherous, disloyal, perfidious, slick, crafty, sly, foxy, cunning, tricky, sneaky, false, reptilian, faithless, Colloq shady: I have dealt with some very slippery characters over the years, but this one is downright evil.
slit v. 1 split, cut, slash, gash, knife, slice: The bark of the log is first slit OBopen, then carefully peeled back. --n. 2 split, cut, gash, incision, fissure, groove, slash, cleft, aperture, opening: Off-stage, the rest of the actors were watching the audience through a slit in the curtain.
sliver n. fragment, piece, shard, shred, splinter, slip, shaving, paring, flake, chip, bit, scrap, snippet, snip: Two weeks later, we were still finding tiny slivers of glass from the broken vase.
slogan n. war cry, battle-cry, rallying cry, catchword, watchword; motto: The magazine's slogan was 'If you love words, you'll love Word '.
sloppy adj. 1 messy, dirty, slovenly, careless, slipshod, untidy, disordered, disorderly; draggle-tailed, bedraggled, dishevelled, unkempt, dowdy, frumpish, shabby, scruffy, Colloq US grungy: She is certainly a sloppy housekeeper. John's teacher complained about his sloppy work. 2 wet, slushy, watery, soggy, soppy, sopping, sodden, sloshy, muddy, rainy: The roads were sloppy after all the rain. You're lucky you don't have to go out in this sloppy weather. 3 sentimental, gushy, gushing, mawkish, maudlin, mushy, over-emotional, Colloq slushy, Brit wet, soppy: She starts to cry whenever she watches a sloppy film on TV.
sloth n. idleness, laziness, indolence, slothfulness, inertia, apathy, indifference, accidie, torpor, faineance, pococurantism, torpidity, sluggishness, languor, languidness, lethargy, phlegm, Rare hebetude: The maharajahs lived a life of sloth and luxury at the expense of their poverty-stricken subjects.
slouch v. 1 droop, sag, stoop, loll, slump, hunch: Sit up straight and stop slouching. --n. 2 stoop, sag, droop, slump, hunch: He seems to have developed a slouch from the burden of his responsibilities. 3 Usually, no slouch. sloven, loafer, sluggard, laggard, loafer, idler, malingerer, lazybones: Nellie is certainly no slouch when it comes to exercising to keep fit.
sludge n. muck, mire, ooze, mud, slime, dregs, silt, residue, precipitate, Colloq goo: The mechanic said that there was a lot of sludge in the engine.
slum n. Often, slums. ghetto, warren, shanty town, US skid row or Skid Road: Many very famous men emerged from the slums of the Lower East Side in New York.
slur n. 1 smear, insult, calumny, aspersion, affront, stigma, stain, blot, spot, (black) mark, discredit, insinuation, innuendo, imputation, slander, libel, slight, Colloq put-down: She resents any slur on her husband's character. --v. 2 mumble, misarticulate, garble, stutter, lisp: Some people nowadays slur their speech so badly that one can hardly understand them. 3 slur over. gloss over, pass over, disregard, give short shrift to, ignore: The eulogies at the memorial service slurred over his faults and focused on his accomplishments.
small-minded adj. small, petty, selfish, stingy, grudging, niggardly, ungenerous, mean, narrow-minded, narrow, close-minded, uncharitable, hidebound, rigid, intolerant, unimaginative, short-sighted, near-sighted, myopic: Charging members of staff for local telephone calls seems rather small-minded.
smart adj. 1 intelligent, clever, bright, brilliant, quick-witted, sharp, acute, astute, capable, adept, apt, quick, ingenious: Emily is one of the smartest children in the class. 2 canny, perspicacious, perceptive, percipient, discerning, knowledgeable, au fait, well-educated, well-read, erudite, learned, well-versed, aware, shrewd, streetwise, Slang hip, tuned in, US savvy: Brendan is smart enough to avoid trouble. 3 elegant, chic, fashionable, stylish, modish, la mode, well-groomed, trim, neat, dapper, spruce, soign(e), Colloq snappy, natty: You must admit that both Della and Paul are smart dressers. 4 pert, pointed, saucy, witty, nimble-witted, poignant, trenchant, effective: I wish he would stop making smart remarks when I am trying to explain something. 5 brisk, vigorous, animated, active, energetic, spirited, lively; quick, alert, jaunty, perky, breezy: The enemy launched a smart counter-attack at dawn. He set off down the road at a smart pace. 6 quick, swift, stiff, smarting, stinging, sharp, severe: The mugger gave him a smart blow on the back of the neck. --v. 7 sting, hurt, pinch, pain, ache, tingle, prickle, burn, throb, stab, pierce: The antiseptic may smart a bit when it is put on the cut. The smoky atmosphere made her eyes smart. --n. 8 injury, harm, pain, pang, twinge, affliction, suffering, smarting: For years he silently endured the smart of his colleagues' ridicule.
smell n. 1 odour, scent, aroma, perfume, fragrance, bouquet, breath, whiff: Don't you love the smell of freshly brewed coffee in the morning? 2 stink, stench, fetor or foetor, fetidness, mephitis, effluvium, Colloq Brit pong: The smell from the rotting garbage was overpowering. --v. 3 scent, sniff, Colloq get a whiff of: The moment I smelt that perfume I knew that Nicole had been there. 4 stink, reek, Colloq Brit pong, hum: The milk had gone off and smelled to high heaven.
smirk n. 1 leer, sneer, grin, grimace, simpering smile: Wipe that conceited smirk off your face. --v. 2 sneer, grimace, leer: Instead of saying, 'I told you so', he just stood there smirking.
smooth adj. 1 regular, even, flush, flat, level, plane, unruffled, unbroken, unwrinkled, undisturbed, tranquil, peaceful, calm, serene, glassy: A light breeze rose to ripple the smooth surface of Alan's martini. 2 slick, sleek, shiny, glossy, glassy, mirror-like, uniform, polished, burnished; silky, silken, velvety, satiny: Optical mirrors for telescopes must be as smooth as modern technology can made them. He ran his fingers over the smooth fabric. 3 unobstructed, easy, effortless, free, uncluttered, even, orderly, well-ordered, uneventful, flowing, fluent, unconstrained, uninterrupted: There were no obstacles in the way of a smooth return to normal operations. The road to ruin is short and smooth. 4 hairless, bald, bare, naked, clean-shaven, smooth-shaven, depilated, glabrous: His smooth pate shone in the moonlight. 5 soothing, mellow, pleasant, bland, mild, soft: That is a very smooth whisky indeed. 6 suave, slick, slippery, unctuous, silken, silky, glib, urbane, soign(e), agreeable, winning, plausible, facile, nonchalant, courtly, eloquent, honey-tongued, smooth-spoken, persuasive, oily, slimy, syrupy, Colloq chiefly Brit smarmy: With his quick understanding and smooth manner, Edward was a very successful salesman. 7 sweet, dulcet, pear-shaped, mellow, well-modulated, silver-tongued: The smooth tones of his serenade wafted through the evening air. 8 slick, scheming, conniving, crafty, shrewd, cunning, tricky, shifty, sly, foxy, Machiavellian, sophistic(al), plausible, credible, believable, Colloq cagey: Robinson came up with a very smooth plan to bilk wealthy widows out of their money. --v. 9 Often, smooth out or away. flatten, even, level, iron, press, mangle, calender: Please smooth the wrinkles out of this shirt so that I can wear it tonight. 10 prepare, lay, pave, ease, ready, clear, open, prime, lubricate, facilitate: What is your policy for smoothing the way for employees joining the firm? 11 sand, plane, polish, buff, burnish: The wood is smoothed to a glassy finish before being used for the cabinets. 12 Often, smooth over. ameliorate, assuage, allay, calm, gloss over, minimize, mitigate, lessen, soothe, reduce, temper, mollify, smoothen, soften, palliate, appease: An otherwise uncomfortable situation was smoothed over by her quiet words.
smoulder v. burn; seethe, simmer, chafe, rage, fume, foam, boil, stew, fester, Colloq get hot under the collar, get (all) steamed up, see red, US do a slow burn, get (all) burnt up: The fire continued to smoulder, then flared up again a week later. He has been smouldering ever since his wife confessed she was going out with another man.
snag n. 1 hitch, catch, problem, (stumbling) block, stricture, bottleneck, complication, obstacle, impediment, obstruction, hindrance, difficulty, US hang-up: A snag developed that prevented my keeping my promise to you. --v. 2 catch, tear, rip: He snagged his new jacket on a nail.
snap v. 1 break (off), separate, crack; cleave, split, fracture, give way, part: The wind snapped off tree branches like matchsticks. The back legs of the chair snapped in two as she sat on it. 2 click; pop; crack: The door snapped shut. 3 Often, snap at. a bite (at), nip, gnash or snatch at: The postman ran down the street, the dog snapping at his heels. b attack, lunge at, lash out (at), snarl at, growl (at), bark (at), be brusque or short or curt (with), Colloq jump down (someone's) throat, fly off the handle (at): Robin is in a bad mood today, snapping at everyone. 4 Usually, snap up or US also off. grab (up), snatch (up), seize, pluck, pounce on or upon, make off with, take (away), capture, catch, get, secure: The people who arrived early at the sale had snapped up all the bargains. 5 shoot, snapshot, photograph, click, catch: He always has his camera with him so that he can snap anything interesting. 6 snap one's fingers at. disdain, scorn, flout, dismiss, contemn, disregard, ignore, defy, mock, deride, thumb one's nose at, Brit cock a snook at: He merely snapped his fingers at the dangers when I mentioned them. 7 snap out of it. recover, come round or around, revive, awaken, wake up, perk up, liven up, cheer up; get a grip or (a) hold on or of oneself, pull oneself together, (re)gain control of oneself: I was feeling very blue yesterday but managed to snap out of it. --n. 8 crack, crackle, pop, click: The lid shut with a snap. 9 spell, period, interval, wave: During that cold snap we thought we were in for a terrible winter. 10 catch, spring catch, (snap-)fastener, fastening, clasp: Do you want snaps or buttons sewn on this shirt? 11 energy, vigour, animation, liveliness, vitality, bounce, alertness, sprightliness, lan, dash, sparkle, verve, Colloq zip, zing, get-up-and-go, pep, pizazz: Granny certainly has a lot of snap left in her. 12 easy job, Slang picnic, US and Canadian breeze: There had been no need for her to worry, for the exam turned out to be a snap. --adj. 13 abrupt, sudden, precipitate, hurried, hasty, incautious, rash, unpremeditated, unplanned, not well-thought-out, quick, instantaneous, instant: This is too important a matter for a snap decision.
snappy adj. 1 quick, sharp, brisk, smart, crisp, lively, rapid, speedy: If you want to come with us, you'd better make it snappy. 2 fashionable, chic, sharp, smart, stylish, dapper, modish, Colloq natty, Brit trendy: Your new friend is a very snappy dresser, isn't he?
snarl v. 1 growl; snap: I admit I found three snarling Dobermans a bit off-putting. The clerk snarled at me when I asked for a form. --n. 2 growl: With a snarl the dog leapt at his throat.
snatch v. 1 grab, grasp, seize, clasp, clutch, pluck, take (hold of), catch, lay hold of, wrest, latch on to, capture, snap up, win, get, lay or get one's hands on: The thief snatched her purse and ran away. One must snatch every available opportunity for happiness. 2 Chiefly US kidnap, abduct: They snatched the kid and are holding him for ransom. 3 save, rescue, deliver, remove: At the very last moment, we were snatched from the jaws of death. --n. 4 grab, clutch, grasp: He made a snatch for her necklace, but she managed to duck out of the way. 5 scrap, bit, fragment, snippet, segment, morsel, specimen, sample: We were able to hear only brief snatches of their conversation through the closed door.
sneaking adj. 1 persistent, lingering, lurking, nagging, worrying, worrisome, niggling, intuitive, deep-rooted, deep-seated, Slang gut: She had a sneaking suspicion that Stephen was a police informer. 2 innate, intuitive, inherent, private, secret, suppressed, hidden, unexpressed, undeclared, unvoiced, unavowed, unconfessed, unrevealed, unadmitted, undivulged, undisclosed, covert: I have a sneaking sympathy with the underdog.
sneer v. 1 smirk, curl one's lip, sniff: Don't sneer - you might be the next to lose your job. 2 scorn, disdain, despise, contemn, turn up one's nose (at), sniff (at), jeer (at), laugh (at), deride, mock, ridicule; underrate; Colloq sneeze at, Slang knock: They sneered at her ambition to become a serious athlete. --n. 3 scorn, jeer, disdain, contempt, derision, mockery, ridicule; sneering, jeering: Barry endured his classmates' sneers without a word. sneeze v. 1 sternutate: I was about to sneeze, so I grabbed a tissue. 2 sneeze at. See sneer, 2, above. --n. 3 sternutation; sneezing: The sneeze is an involuntary convulsive action.
sniff n. 1 whiff, breath, odour, scent: I got a sniff of her perfume as she walked by. 2 hint, spirit, feeling, suggestion: There is the sniff of spring in the air. --v. 3 smell, snuffle, snuff: Why is your dog always sniffing at my shoes? 4 sniff (at). See sneer, 2, above.
snipe v. Usually, snipe at. shoot at, fire at; attack, criticize, deride, find fault with, carp at, pick apart: Newby has been sniping at the organization for years and we simply ignore him.
snobbery n. snobbism, snobbishness, pretentiousness, pretension, hauteur, haughtiness, superciliousness, condescension, loftiness, contemptuousness, presumptuousness, lordliness, disdainfulness, disdain, pompousness, pomposity, affectation, inflatedness, self-importance, conceit, vainness, vanity, narcissism, self-admiration, self-centredness, egotism, smugness, Colloq uppishness, uppitiness, snootiness, snottiness: It is commonplace to criticize the nouveau riche for their snobbery.
snoop v. 1 pry, spy, interfere, meddle, intrude, butt in(to), Colloq stick or poke one's nose; be nosy, nose around or about: He couldn't stop snooping into other people's affairs. --n. 2 busybody, Paul Pry, meddler, spy, intruder, snooper, peeper; private detective or investigator; Colloq Nosy Parker, US buttinsky or buttinski; private eye, US shamus: There was a snoop here today, asking a lot of personal questions.
snuggle v. cuddle, snug down, nestle, nuzzle: The puppies snuggled up close to their mother for warmth and protection.
soaking n. 1 drenching, wetting, dousing or dowsing, immersing, saturating: We got a thorough soaking when we were caught in the storm. --adj. 2 wet, sopping, drenched, dripping, saturated, soaked, wringing wet, streaming, sodden, waterlogged: Take off your soaking clothes and sit by the fire in this robe.
sob v. cry, weep, blubber, shed tears, snivel, whimper, sniff, snuffle, pule, wail, moan, boohoo, mewl, pule, bawl, howl, yowl: The poor, lonely child sobbed quietly.
sobriety n. 1 teetotalism, abstemiousness, abstention, abstinence, non-indulgence, temperance: Since taking the pledge, Oscar has been a model of sobriety. 2 seriousness, soberness, solemnity, staidness, gravity, temperateness, sedateness, formality, dignity: They made him promise to do nothing to upset the sobriety of the memorial service.
sociable adj. friendly, affable, approachable, social, gregarious, outgoing, extrovert(ed) or extravert(ed), companionable, accessible, amiable, amicable, genial, congenial, convivial, warm, cordial, neighbourly, hail-fellow-well-met, Colloq chummy, cosy: The people in this area are quite sociable, and we get together often.
socialize v. mix, get together, fraternize, keep company, go out, get out; associate: They haven't had much time for socializing since the birth of their baby.
soft adj. 1 yielding, cushiony, plushy, spongy, squeezable, compressible, squashy, squashable, flexible, plastic, pliable, pliant, supple, flexile, flexuous, unstarched: This mattress is much too soft for my back. 2 easy, comfortable, undemanding, Colloq cushy: His uncle got him a soft job at the Labour Ministry. 3 gentle, mild, balmy, pleasant, moderate, warm, halcyon, springlike, summery, restful, tranquil, relaxing, lazy: Alexandra was looking forward to a week in the soft Caribbean climate. 4 subdued, toned or turned down, muted, low, quiet, melodious, mellifluous or mellifluent, mellow, gentle, faint, softened, soothing, smooth: Riley thought she might succumb to the influences of the wine and the soft music and lights. 5 easygoing, tolerant, kind, compassionate, gentle, merciful, lenient, indulgent, permissive, liberal, lax, easy, docile, tame, submissive, deferential, benign, tender-hearted, sympathetic, kind-hearted, kind: Some believe that the jailers were too soft with the criminals. His parents were far too soft. 6 Usually, soft in the head. foolish, silly, simple, Colloq chiefly Brit daft, US off: Kevin must have gone a bit soft in the head if he thinks that Clara still loves him. 7 depressed, declining, in decline, in recession, slow, unprofitable, borderline, questionable, weak: Owing to the stormy, cold summer, the resort business has been soft this year. 8 downy, silky, silken, satiny, furry, fluffy, feathery, fleecy, fuzzy, velvety, smooth (as a baby's bottom): The wool from the lambs is much softer. 9 pastel, pale, delicate, fine, subdued, light, matte or matt, quiet, diffuse(d), soothing: He wanted the bedroom painted in soft shades of greenish blue. 10 harmless, non-addictive: Some consider cannabis a soft drug. 11 fuzzy, woolly, blurred, blurry, foggy, diffuse(d): The soft focus photos of the wedding looked very romantic. 12 weak, feeble, frail, effete, delicate, non-physical, non-muscular, puny, flabby, out of training or condition or shape, pampered; namby-pamby, effeminate, unmanly, unmanful, Colloq sissified, sissy: He had been out of the marines for so long they thought he had gone soft. 13 easy, luxurious, pampered, rich, opulent, plush, posh, Colloq ritzy, swank(y): Since selling his business, Aubrey Quinton has been living the soft life on the Costa del Sol.
soft-hearted adj. tender-hearted, compassionate, tender, warm-hearted, sentimental, charitable, generous, giving, sympathetic, indulgent, kind, kind-hearted, responsive: Alison is quite soft-hearted when it comes to animal causes and contributed willingly.
soil n. earth, loam, dirt, ground, turf, humus; clay: The men who dug the swimming-pool took away the soil from the pit.
solace n. 1 comfort, consolation, condolence, relief, balm, support, help, succour; reassurance, cheer: The children brought her solace in her bereavement. --v. 2 comfort, console, condole, support, help, succour, soothe, allay, alleviate, ameliorate, mitigate, assuage, relieve; cheer (up), reassure, hearten: There was little to solace James's misery.
sole adj. lone, only, singular, unique, solitary; particular, exclusive, individual, personal: As Susan is the sole surviving heir, she has the right to sell the house if she wishes.
solemn adj. 1 serious, sober, reserved, grave, earnest, sedate, staid, taciturn; morose, morbid, mirthless, unsmiling, gloomy, sombre, grim; glum, long-faced, saturnine: We observed a moment of solemn silence in memory of our fallen comrades. They knew from their father's solemn expression that something was wrong. 2 ceremonial, ritualistic, liturgical, religious, ecclesiastical, holy, divine, sacred, hallowed, sacramental, reverential, devotional: We attended a solemn service to celebrate the return of the hostages. 3 ceremonious, ritual, formal, dignified, stately, grand, august, imposing, impressive, awe-inspiring, awesome, important, momentous: The Trobriand islanders regarded the rights of passage as most solemn.
solicit v. 1 entreat, beseech, ask (for), implore, petition, importune, appeal for or to, call on or upon, beg, supplicate, pray, crave: He has solicited my help on more than one occasion. 2 accost, approach, entice, lure, pander to, Slang hustle: You can't go out in that neighbourhood without being solicited.
solicitous adj. 1 concerned, caring, considerate, uneasy, troubled, anxious, apprehensive, worried: She seemed genuinely solicitous over the state of my health. 2 eager, earnest, zealous, keen, anxious, desirous, ardent, avid: She seems sincerely solicitous to please the firm's customers.
solid adj. 1 three-dimensional, cubic: The perspective drawing is a representation of a solid object. 2 filled (in or up), packed, jammed, crowded, teeming, congested, crammed, swarming, compressed, concentrated, Colloq chock-a-block, jam-packed, chock-full: By the time I arrived, the gallery was solid with people. 3 compact, firm, hard, stable; unshakeable or unshakable, unshaky, substantial, concrete, sturdy, sound, stout, strong: The vessel floated through the air before coming to rest on solid ground. His theories rest on a solid foundation. 4 consistent, homogeneous, uniform, unalloyed, unmixed, pure, continuous, unbroken, real, authentic, true, genuine, 24-carat, unadulterated, Slang honest-to-God: This mountain seems to be solid iron all the way through. John gave me a solid gold necklace for my birthday. 5 law-abiding, upstanding, upright, decent, stout, substantial, powerful, reliable, regular, steady, steadfast, stalwart, straight, estimable, sure, trusty, trustworthy, true-blue, worthy, dependable, sober: Mr Hart is one of the solid citizens of this town. He has always been a solid defender of the underdog. 6 steady, stable, stalwart, dependable, sturdy, strong, substantial, sound, firm, well-built, well-constructed, well-made, tough, durable, rugged, stout: That chair is not solid enough for you to stand on. 7 cogent, sound, concrete, weighty, proved, provable, valid, reasonable, sensible, rational, sober, well-founded, authoritative, indisputable, incontrovertible, irrefutable, incontestable, good, powerful, potent, forceful, convincing, persuasive: He presents a solid argument for a sales tax. 8 firm, downright, vigorous, telling, effective, forceful, potent, powerful, mighty, dynamic, thorough, through-and-through, intensive: Jan struck a solid blow against the supporters of abortion. 9 See solvent, 1, below. 10 entire, complete, whole, continuous; uninterrupted, undivided, unbroken, unrelieved, blank, windowless: I had to wait at the dentist's for a solid hour. Around the park they erected a solid wall.
solidify v. 1 harden, freeze, set, cake, compact, compress, crystallize; jell or gel, clot, congeal, coagulate, thicken, Technical inspissate; sublime: The lava flowed round the bodies of those who died and solidified, preserving them in their final attitudes. 2 consolidate, unite, unify, pull or draw together: Studying the speeches of politicians enables me to solidify my own views.
solitude n. 1 solitariness, aloneness, isolation, seclusion, privacy: Peter enjoys the solitude of living on an island. 2 loneliness, remoteness; emptiness, wilderness: How long could one person survive in the solitude of interstellar space?
solution n. 1 solving, working or figuring out, discovery, finding out, unravelling, explication, deciphering, decipherment, elucidation, revelation, clarification, explanation; answer, key: The solution of the problem should be left up to the experts. Several solutions have been found through computer analysis. 2 settlement, settling, resolution, result, denouement or dnouement, outcome, conclusion: It seems unlikely that we shall be able to bring this matter to a solution in a one-day meeting. 3 mixture, blend, compound, infusion; liquid, fluid; Technical emulsion, suspension, colloid or colloidal solution or colloidal suspension: After mixing the powder with water, use the solution to bathe the wound. 4 dissolving, dissolution, mixing, mixture: The solution of these ingredients in alcohol was first accomplished in ancient times.
solvent adj. creditworthy, (financially) sound, solid, reliable; debt-free; profitable: The auditors rate the business as solvent.
somebody pron. 1 one, someone, some person: There must be somebody who will take you to the dance. --n. 2 personage, celebrity, dignitary, VIP, luminary, notable, star, superstar, Colloq hotshot, bigwig, big wheel, big gun, big noise, big White Chief, big Daddy, big Chief, big-timer; hot stuff; Old-fashioned big cheese; US Mr Big: He must be a somebody to merit such treatment.
sometime adj. 1 former, erstwhile, past, recent, one-time, quondam: Crawford was a sometime student of the occult. --adv. 2 at some time or other, someday, one day, any time, on a future occasion, when or if the opportunity arises, soon, by and by, one of these days: Come up and see me sometime. 3 sooner or later, in (due) time, in the fullness of time, in the long run, one fine day, Un bel di, eventually, when all is said and done, before long, before you know it: You can be sure that the tax man will find out about it sometime.
somewhat adv. rather, quite, relatively, more or less, moderately, pretty, fairly, to some or a certain extent or degree or measure, slightly, a bit, a little, Colloq sort of, kind of: Ingrid was somewhat put out by my refusal.
soon adv. 1 before long, presently, ere long; in the near future, any minute (now), before you know it, in good time, in a little while, in a minute or a moment, momentarily, shortly, anon, in a second, Colloq in a jiffy: Soon another year will have passed. The doctor will be with you soon. 2 quickly, speedily, at once, promptly, immediately, directly, without delay, straightway, straight away, right away, forthwith, in short order, on the double, in two shakes (of a lamb's tail), in a wink, tout de suite, without delay, Colloq pronto, US and Canadian lickety-split: If he doesn't come soon, dinner will be spoilt. 3 quickly, speedily, promptly, swiftly: I'll be there as soon as I can. 4 willingly, lief, gladly, happily, readily: I'd just as soon be left alone, if you don't mind. 5 sooner or later. at some time or other, some time, one day, in time, in due course, eventually, ultimately, in the end, when all is said and done, at the end of the day, in the last or final analysis, at bottom: Don't worry, she'll come home sooner or later. Sooner or later they will have to yield.
sophistic adj. sophistical, specious, fallacious, deceptive, hypocritical, false, unsound, baseless, groundless, casuistic(al), Jesuitic(al), captious, misleading, bogus, sham, untenable: The politicians advanced their usual sophistic arguments for continuing a war that no one wanted to support.
sophistication n. 1 worldliness, urbanity, culture, refinement, knowledge, knowledgeability, cosmopolitanism, polish, elegance, poise, suavity or suavit, savoir faire, savoir vivre, finesse, discrimination, discernment, awareness, taste, tastefulness, style: They want him on the board of directors of the museum because he lends it sophistication. 2 complexity, intricacy, subtlety, refinement: There is a staggering amount of sophistication built into modern integrated circuits.
sorcery n. witchcraft, enchantment, sortilege, necromancy, wizardry, (black or white) magic, shamanism, black art, diabolism: Once Vera works her sorcery on you, you obey her every whim.
sore adj. 1 painful, sensitive, tender, raw, angry, burning, stinging, smarting, hurting; irritated, inflamed, chafed: My finger is still sore round the cut. 2 sensitive, delicate, tender, embarrassing, awkward, ticklish, touchy, thorny, prickly: Failing to complete medical school is a sore point with her. 3 dire, serious, acute, extreme, critical, urgent, pressing, desperate: He is in sore need of some good advice. 4 angry, angered, annoyed, irritated, vexed, irked, upset, Colloq peeved: Don't get sore at me because you got low marks in your exams. 5 painful, troublesome, grievous, aggrieved, distressing, distressful, harrowing, severe, agonizing, bitter, fierce, burdensome, onerous, heavy, oppressive: Melanie's marital troubles proved a sore trial for her friends. 6 sore straits. difficulty, trouble, distress, danger, dangerous or precarious condition: The business is in sore straits, I fear. --n. 7 injury, damage, swelling, rawness, infection, inflammation, bruise, abrasion, cut, laceration, scrape, burn, canker, ulcer: If that sore on your arm doesn't heal, you'd better see a doctor.
sorrowful adj. 1 sad, unhappy, regretful, sorry, depressed, dejected, crestfallen, chap-fallen, gloomy, downcast, blue, dispirited, melancholy, in the doldrums, wretched, woebegone, miserable, heartsick, disheartened, piteous, heavy-hearted, broken-hearted, rueful, woeful, tearful, disconsolate, inconsolable, grief-stricken, Colloq down in the mouth, down in the dumps: The entire family was sorrowful to learn of Carriston's death. 2 distressing, lamentable, doleful, unfortunate, bitter, distressful, troublous, grievous, unlucky, hapless, afflictive: What a sorrowful life some of those miners' families have led!
sort n. 1 kind, variety, type, class, classification, group, category, brand, make, mark, stamp, description, mould, stripe, ilk, feather, kidney, character, nature; manner, species: A 1928 Alfa-Romeo coup is not exactly the right sort of car for a family. Lewis is a person of a different sort. What sort of person is he? 2 kind, type, manner: This sort of behaviour must stop. 3 species, genus, family, phylum, subgenus, subspecies, race, breed, strain, stock, kind, variety, type: Aberdeen Angus is a better sort of beef for steaks. 4 person, individual, lot; thing: He is not really such a bad sort. 5 of sorts. of a sort, of a mediocre or passable or admissible or not (too) bad or fair or sufficiently good or adequate or undistinguished or indifferent kind or quality or proficiency: Yes, one might say that he is a violinist of sorts. 6 out of sorts. not oneself, not up to snuff, unwell, ailing, indisposed, (slightly) ill, low, Colloq off one's feed, under the weather: He is out of sorts after last night's revelries. 7 sort of. See somewhat, above. --v. 8 assort, classify, file, order, rank, grade, class, categorize, separate, divide, combine, merge, arrange, organize, systemize, systematize, catalogue, group, sort out: Sort these names into alphabetical order. 9 describe, characterize, categorize, cast, throw, combine, mould, type: I did not enjoy being sorted together with thieves and murderers. 10 sort out. a organize, set or put straight, straighten out, resolve, tidy (up), clarify, clear up, solve; decide: Someone will have to sort out how we are to proceed. b choose, select, separate, divide: Sort out all the books that you want to keep from those to be donated to the library.
soul n. 1 (vital) spirit or force, being, (inner or true) self, essence, psyche, heart, mind, intellect, reason, anima: He finally surrendered, body and soul. 2 person, individual, man, woman, mortal, (human) being: I won't tell a soul about our conversation. What a sweet old soul she is! 3 incarnation, embodiment, personification, typification, essence, quintessence: You can count on me as the soul of discretion. 4 emotion, feeling, sentiment, sincerity, fervour, ardour, warmth, dynamism, vivacity, energy, spirit, vitality, force: Alice puts a lot of soul into her singing, and that comes across to the audience.
sound n. 1 tone; noise; din; cacophony; report: This piano has a tinny sound. We could hear the sound of laughter from below. I heard nothing over the sound of the crowd. Sounds of gunfire echoed in the valley. 2 ring, tone, impression, characteristic, quality, effect, aspect, look: I didn't like the sound of that remark. 3 hearing, range, earshot: Anyone within the sound of his voice could tell that he was angry. --v. 4 resound, reverberate, echo, resonate: The noises sound very close. 5 seem, appear, look; strike one, give one the impression or feeling or sense (that); resemble, sound or seem or look like: It sounds as if you don't want to come to my party. That sounds like Russian to me. 6 ring, (be) activate(d), (be) set or touch(ed) off, signal: Anyone walking into the room sounds the alarm. The alarm sounds when the beam is broken. 7 Sometimes, sound out. articulate, pronounce, enunciate, utter; voice, vocalize: I was taught to speak clearly, to sound each consonant and vowel. 8 Sometimes, sound out or off. shout (out), cry out, yell (out): Sound out those numbers loud and clear! 9 sound off. vituperate, complain, bluster, grumble, Slang bitch: Today Mr Morrison was again sounding off about the service in the caf.
sound v. 1 Often, sound out. plumb, probe, test, check (out or into), fathom, inquire or enquire of, question, poll, canvass, investigate, examine, survey: Sound out the membership on their feelings about increasing the dues. 2 dive, plunge, submerge: The great whale sounded, almost taking the tiny boat down with it.
sour adj. 1 acid, acidic, tart, vinegary, lemony, acidulous or acidulent, acidulated, acescent, acerbic: This apple has a pleasant, slightly sour taste. Do you like sour dill pickles? 2 turned, bad, (gone) off, fermented, curdled, rancid, spoilt or spoiled: If the food is sour, throw it away. 3 disagreeable, unpleasant, distasteful, bad, nasty, bitter, terrible: The poor service and facilities made the entire holiday a very sour experience. 4 acrimonious, bitter, embittered, unpleasant, churlish, ill-natured, ill-tempered, bad-tempered, crusty, curmudgeonly, crabbed, crabby, grouchy, cross, cranky, testy, petulant, impatient, abrupt, nasty, curt, caustic, brusque, peevish, snappish, edgy, sullen, morose, gloomy, discontented: The waitress's sour expression matched her sour disposition. --v. 5 turn, spoil, curdle, go bad or off, ferment: Milk sours quickly in this climate if you don't refrigerate it. 6 embitter, acerbate, disenchant, exasperate, vex, Colloq peeve: Being forced to practise for hours when a child was what soured my enjoyment of playing the piano.
sovereign n. 1 monarch, ruler, emperor, empress, king, queen, prince, princess, potentate, chief, master, mistress, shah, sultan; Akund (of Swat), Gaekwar (of Baroda), Nizam (of Hyderabad), Mehtar (of Chitral), Nucifrage of Nuremberg, Sheikh of Araby, Colloq supremo: She is the sovereign and must be obeyed. --adj. 2 supreme, paramount, highest, principal, foremost, greatest, predominant, dominant, ranking, leading, chief, superior, pre-eminent, ruling, regnant, reigning, governing, all-powerful, absolute, unlimited: The first-born of the monarch is vested with sovereign authority upon the monarch's death. 3 royal, regal, majestic, noble, lordly, aristocratic, kingly, queenly: He was hailed as the sovereign ruler of all the islands.
sow v. seed, disseminate, broadcast, plant: The grand vizier sowed the seeds of dissension amongst the subjects of the caliph.
spacious adj. vast, large, extensive, enormous, wide, broad, commodious, ample, expansive, roomy, huge, sizeable, large, capacious, great, immense, outsize(d), voluminous, oversize(d): The house was more spacious than it looked from the outside. Siberia offers spacious territory, ripe for habitation over the next century.
spank v. slap, smack, put or take over one's knee, thrash, paddle; chastise, punish, castigate; Colloq wallop, tan (someone's) hide, paddywhack, whack, give (someone) a (good) licking or hiding: In those days when you misbehaved you were spanked.
spar n. Nautical mast, yard, yard-arm, boom, boomkin, gaff, jigger, mizen, Colloq stick, pole: The first gusts of the storm tore the remaining canvas from the spars.
spare adj. 1 extra, surplus, supernumerary, auxiliary, supplementary, additional; odd, leftover; in reserve, in addition: We got a puncture, so Dad stopped and put on the spare wheel. Give them the spare room. Have you a spare cigarette? 2 unoccupied, leftover, leisure, free, surplus, extra; not spoken for: Her demanding job left her very little spare time. 3 thin, skinny, scrawny, cadaverous, gaunt, raw-boned, meagre, gangling, lank(y), wiry, slim, slender; all skin and bones: The spare, ragged figure crouched in the shadows, his hand outstretched in supplication. 4 See sparing, below. 5 meagre, frugal, small, skimpy, modest, scanty: Their meals were spare but wholesome. --v. 6 save, rescue, deliver, redeem: Bill spared me from a fate worse than death. Spare me the embarrassment of having to ask for my money back. 7 pardon, let go, release, have mercy on, let off, free, liberate: At the last moment, the judge spared him. 8 allow, relinquish, let go (of), give, award, bestow, let have, donate, part with, give, yield: She decided she could spare a couple of pounds for the disaster appeal. Buddy, can you spare a dime? 9 avoid, dispense with, manage or do without, give up, forgo, forsake, surrender, sacrifice: We spared a great deal of trouble by settling the dispute. Spare the rod and spoil the child.
spark n. 1 scintilla, flicker, glimmer, glint, sparkle, speck, hint, suggestion, vestige, atom, whit, jot (or tittle), iota: As long as a spark of life remained in his body he fought for freedom and justice. --v. 2 Often, spark off. set or touch off, ignite, kindle, enkindle, electrify, animate, trigger, energize, galvanize, activate, excite, stimulate, set in motion, bring about, start (up), begin, initiate, inspire, inspirit, provoke, precipitate: Was there any single factor that sparked the Renaissance?
sparse adj. 1 thin (on the ground), few (and far between), meagre, scanty, (widely) dispersed or scattered, spread out, spotty, in short supply, scarce: Tourists are sparse in Scotland in January. Sparse blooms appeared on the rose-bushes this year. 2 little, limited, meagre, scant, sparing, inappreciable, not much, insignificant: Sparse use was made of the new tennis court because of the rain.
spasm n. 1 convulsion, throe, fit, twitch, paroxysm: Deprived of his medication, Brian might go into spasms. 2 fit, seizure, convulsion, paroxysm, spell, outburst, burst, eruption: After that, every time he said 'furniture', the crowd went into spasms of laughter.
spate n. flood, inundation, onrush, onset, rush, deluge, outpouring, outflow, outflowing, flow: What did I say to provoke that spate of foul language?
spawn v. give birth to, yield, bear, bring forth, breed, beget, create, father, sire, produce, generate, engender, give rise to, bring about, cause: Donald's arrogance over his wealth spawned a great deal of resentment.
speaker n. orator, lecturer; keynoter; rabble-rouser, demagogue, Colloq tub-thumper, spieler: It was my function to introduce the speaker.
special adj. 1 particular, specific, exceptional, uncommon, especial, rare, unusual, out of the ordinary, extraordinary, different, unorthodox, unconventional, unique, precise, individual, singular, distinctive, specialized, certain, remarkable, inimitable, idiosyncratic, curious, peculiar, odd, strange, bizarre, weird, one of a kind; distinguished, notable, noteworthy: They have a special way of communicating with each other. I bought something very special for your birthday. A special relationship sprang up between us. 2 significant, important, momentous, earth-shaking, memorable, red-letter; gala, festive, celebratory: The fifth of September is a special day in our family. 3 pointed, concerted, deliberate, particular, extra, determined: After I had made a special effort to get there, nobody was home. 4 exclusive, express, individual, extra: Send the packet by special messenger. 5 dear, intimate, particular, good, close, bosom, staunch, loyal, faithful, devoted, steadfast; dearest, best, closest; esteemed, valued: I wasn't aware that John Spencer was a special friend of yours. 6 prime, primary, major, prominent, paramount: I shouldn't attach any special importance to her demands. --n. 7 See speciality, 2 below.
speciality n. 1 expertise, talent, genius, gift, skill, aptitude, trade, craft, accomplishment, ability, strength, forte, strong point, capability, adeptness, art, sphere, field, area, subject, concentration, specialization, mtier, Chiefly US and Canadian specialty, Colloq bag, thing, cup of tea, baby, claim to fame: Dr Mann's speciality is tropical diseases. 2 pice de rsistance, spcialit de la maison, special, Chiefly US and Canadian specialty, US blueplate special: Today's speciality is calves' brains au beurre noir.
specific adj. 1 definite, precise, exact, particular, explicit, express, unambiguous, definitive, clear-cut, unequivocal, (well-)defined, determined, specified, individual, peculiar, certain, limited, indicated, predetermined, established, spelt or spelled out, delineated, set, distinct, fixed, circumscribed, restricted: Each part has its specific function. 2 Often, specific to. characteristic (of), unique to, individual (to), sui generis, proper (to), typical (of), peculiar to, identified with, personal (to), discrete (to), special (to), associated with: The disease is specific to one area only. Are these problems group-specific?
specify v. particularize, enumerate, itemize, name, denominate, list, indicate, mention, identify, cite, define, detail, stipulate, spell out, set out or forth, individualize, be specific about, delineate, determine, disambiguate, establish: You must specify the source of each quotation.
specious adj. deceptive, superficial, casuistic, ostensible, misleading, apparent, seeming, fallacious, sophistic(al), plausible, likely, conceivable, possible, supposed, purported, presumed, presumable, alleged, so-called: The candidate affected a specious show of liberality merely to attract votes. Do not be misled by specious reasoning.
speckled adj. spotted, mottled, dotted, sprinkled, flecked, stippled, dapple(d), freckled, brindle(d); discoloured, spattered, bespattered: I can see by looking at it that it's a speckled trout.
spectator n. witness, eyewitness, observer, viewer, onlooker, looker-on, watcher, beholder: There were more spectators than participants at the spring dance.
spectre n. 1 ghost, phantom, wraith, apparition, vision, spirit, shade, revenant, Doppelgnger, chimera, Colloq spook, bogeyman or bogyman: Each year the spectre appeared to her on Christmas Eve. 2 image, vision, (mental) picture: Again the horrible spectre of war and pestilence arose.
speculation n. 1 conjecture, guess, hypothesis, theory, guesswork, postulation, surmise, supposition, opinion: My speculations have often proved true. Both the steady-state and the big-bang theories of the origins of the universe are pure speculation. 2 thinking, rumination, cogitation, reflection, meditation, contemplation, consideration, cerebration, pondering, wondering, deliberation, evaluation: All serious philosophers engage in idle speculation. 3 gambling, gamble, wagering, wager, taking (a) chance(s) or risk(s), chance-taking: Her speculation on the market paid off handsomely.
speech n. 1 speaking, talking, articulation, diction, language, expression, enunciation, elocution, speech pattern; communication: His speech is marred by a lisp. Martha studied speech at a well-known drama school. 2 oration, address, lecture, talk, discourse, disquisition, sermon, homily; tirade, harangue, philippic; (sales) pitch, line, song and dance; Colloq spiel, blast: Her speech left her audience awed with her knowledge of the subject. When the householder opens the door, you launch into your speech about the encyclopedia. 3 dialect, idiolect, jargon, parlance, idiom, faon de parler, language, tongue, Colloq lingo: English speech varieties range from Scots to Cockney to Texan to Jamaican.
speed n. 1 rapidity, fleetness, quickness, speediness, swiftness, velocity, dispatch or despatch, hurry, hurriedness, haste, hastiness, celerity, alacrity, expeditiousness, expedition, briskness, promptness, timeliness; suddenness, precipitateness, precipitousness, abruptness: We reached a speed of Mach 2. What is the speed of your new computer? The speed of her reactions will be recorded during the experiment. --v. 2 Often, speed up. accelerate, move, expedite, forward, advance, facilitate, boost, further, promote, help, assist, aid, Colloq give a leg up: He vowed to do anything he could to speed the troops' return from the battlefield. 3 hasten, make haste, hurry, rush, charge, dart, bolt, shoot, run, race, sprint, fly, streak, scurry, tear, hustle, scramble, scamper, career, bowl along, go or fly like the wind, Colloq go hell for leather, go like a bat out of hell, belt along, step on it, put one's foot down, zip, zoom, skedaddle, go like a shot, US hightail it, step on the gas, go like greased lightning, make tracks, Slang US burn rubber: Where the road is straight, cars speed along at up to 120 miles per hour.
spell n. 1 period, interval, time, term, season; stint, turn, run, course, shift, tour (of duty), watch, round: We had a spell of bad weather. Each of us had a spell at the tiller during the crossing. --v. 2 relieve, replace, substitute for, take over for or from: After 36 hours of uninterrupted duty, I needed someone to spell me for a while.
spell v. 1 augur, portend, presage, promise, hold promise of, signify, point to, indicate, omen, bode, look like, amount to, mean: Harry's conviction will spell the end of his career as a bank robber. 2 spell out. specify, delineate, make clear or plain or explicit, clarify, elucidate: She despises you - I can't spell it out for you more plainly than that.
spend v. 1 pay out, disburse, expend, lay out, Colloq fork out, dish out, shell out, Brit splash out: That man spends more for a suit than you earn in a year. 2 squander, throw away, fritter away, waste, go through, splurge, lavish, dissipate: He spends money as if it's going out of style. 3 devote, allot, assign, invest, put in, pass: If you don't spend more time with the children they'll forget they have a father.
spent adj. 1 drained, exhausted, prostrate, tired, fatigued, fagged out, weary, wearied, worn out, Colloq (dead) beat, done in, done for, all in, dog-tired, played out, burnt- or burned-out, used up, Brit knackered, done up, US pooped: He was totally spent after sitting in the airport all night during the storm. 2 exhausted, used up, emptied, gone, expended, finished, fini, consumed, depleted: At 70, he was wrong to feel that his life was spent.
sphere n. 1 globe, orb, globule, spherule; drop, droplet, bubble: Flotation is provided by thousands of hollow plastic spheres. 2 society, class, level, caste, rank, domain, walk of life, station, stratum, position: They did not belong to the same social sphere. 3 area, field, province, subject, discipline, range, speciality or US specialty, forte, Colloq bailiwick, territory, department, thing, bag: Are Gregorian chants within Stanley's sphere of interest?
spice n. 1 condiment, relish, seasoning, flavour(ing); herb: Much of the purpose of early explorers was to search for spices. 2 zest, spiciness, piquancy, tang, pungency, bite, sharpness, poignancy, gusto, excitement, seasoning, dash, lan, colour, life, vigour, interest, stimulation, stimulant, spirit, Colloq vim, zip, pep, kick, pizazz, punch, ginger, pepper: A holiday in the Bahamas will add a little spice to our lives. --v. 3 season, flavour: Highly spiced food does not agree with many people. 4 Often, spice up. enliven, inspirit, stimulate, invigorate: The proprietor felt that the new editor should try to spice up the magazine.
spike n. 1 skewer, stake, prong, treenail, nail, peg, picket, pin, pike, spine: To subdue a vampire, drive a wooden spike through its heart. --v. 2 impale, stab, stick, spear, pierce, spit, lance: He was spiked through the thigh by a bayonet. 3 disable, thwart, nullify, disarm, block, frustrate, foil, void, balk, check, cancel, annul: Our plans for the picnic were spiked by the weather. 4 strengthen; drug, poison, Slang slip in a Mickey (Finn): I passed out because my drink was spiked.
spin v. 1 revolve, turn, rotate, gyrate, twirl, whirl, twist, reel, pirouette, pivot: The car spun out of control on the ice. Fred spun Ginger around the dance floor. 2 invent, concoct, make up, devise, produce, fabricate; weave, relate, retail, recount, narrate, tell, unfold: Each night, father would spin a new chapter in the yarn of the vagabond princess. 3 be dizzy, suffer vertigo, swim, whirl, be giddy: My head was spinning from so much attention by the media. 4 spin off. separate, derive: The manufacturer spun off two new companies specializing in parts and service. 5 spin out. prolong, protract, drag or draw out, stretch out, perpetuate, continue, extend, keep alive, keep going: The case was spun out for years in the courts. --n. 6 whirl, whirling, twirl, twirling, turn, turning, gyration, reel, pirouette, revolution, revolving, rotation, rotating: He puts a spin on the ball when he throws it. Is the spin of all planets in the same direction? 7 drive, whirl, joyride, ride, tour, excursion, outing, jaunt: On Sunday afternoons we sometimes went for a spin in the car.
spineless adj. 1 Technical invertebrate: There are more species of spineless creatures than those with internal backbones. 2 weak, feeble, flabby, irresolute, weak-willed, indecisive, ineffectual, ineffective, impotent, powerless: After her reign, any king would appear spineless. 3 cowardly, dastardly, pusillanimous, timorous, lily-livered, white-livered, craven, fearful, timid, spiritless, squeamish, Colloq yellow, chicken-hearted, chicken, yellow-bellied, wimpish: She said you were spineless because you refused to go into the lions' cage.
spire n. 1 column, tower, belfry; steeple, flche: The spire of the church was repeatedly struck by lightning that night. 2 top, pinnacle, apex, peak, summit, acme, tip, crest, crown, vertex: We climbed till we stood on the highest spire above the valley.
spirited adj. lively, sprightly, energetic, vigorous, animated, sparkling, dynamic, buoyant, effervescent, vivacious, ardent, mettlesome: The horse I chose was a bit too spirited. The barrister presented a spirited defence for his client. The 1970s saw spirited revivals of art nouveau and art deco styles.
spit v. 1 expectorate; dribble, salivate, drool, slaver, sputter, splutter; discharge, spew (forth), eject: Spitting is forbidden. Don't you hate people who spit when they talk? The volcano spat huge boulders into the sky. 2 spitting image or spit and image. twin, duplicate, clone, image, counterpart, likeness, copy: She is the spitting image of her mother. --n. 3 spittle, saliva, drool, Technical sputum: A large gobbet of spit clung to his beard.
spiteful adj. rancorous, bitter, acrimonious, malevolent, malicious, venomous, hateful, invidious, hostile, antagonistic, unfriendly, unforgiving, retaliative or retaliatory, punitive, retributive or retributory: Cutting off Colin's allowance because he forgot your birthday was a spiteful thing to do.
splendid adj. 1 splendorous, magnificent, resplendent, dazzling, gorgeous, showy, dashing, marvellous, spectacular, grand, glorious, lavish, ornate, sumptuous, majestic, brilliant, extraordinary, exceptional, superb, supreme, imposing, impressive, awe-inspiring, awesome, lush, plush, rich, luxurious, Colloq splendiferous, posh, swank(y), ritzy: The mausoleum built by Shah Jehan for his wife was far more splendid than his own palace. 2 impressive, marvellous, brilliant, eminent, prominent, superior, noteworthy, notable, celebrated, illustrious, famous, distinguished, exemplary, remarkable, admirable, conspicuous, outstanding, sublime, striking, extraordinary, successful, admirable, meritorious, creditable: His splendid victory at Waterloo was the climax of his military career. 3 excellent, superior, pre-eminent, fine, marvellous, extraordinary, exceptional, unbelievable, incredible, first-class, unequalled, unsurpassed, fabulous, peerless, matchless, nonpareil, superlative, praiseworthy, laudable, Brit brilliant, Colloq great, colossal, supercolossal, stupendous, fab, fantastic, super, smashing, A1 or A-1 or A-one, tiptop, capital, Brit brill, Slang far-out, way-out, dandy, cool, keen, US solid, out of sight, fantabulous, boss, neat, major: Bill is a splendid dancer.
splice v. 1 join, unite, marry, bind, conjoin; knit, entwine, intertwine, braid, plait, twist, interlace: After the two rope ends are spliced together, they should be seized with marline. --n. 2 joining, union, splicing, joint, connection or Brit connexion, tie, bond, binding, fastening, linking, linkage: A proper splice will probably be stronger than the single cable. splinter n. 1 sliver, fragment, piece; scrap, shard, shred, chip: A splinter of glass is stuck in my finger. --v. 2 shatter, break, fragment, split, disintegrate, smash to smithereens: The lamp hit the floor and splintered into a million pieces.
splurge n. 1 display, show, ostentatiousness, extravagance, indulgence, access, splash, burst, outburst, spree: In his final splurge he bet everything on the number 14. --v. 2 Often, splurge on. squander or dissipate or waste or burn (up) or throw away money (on), show off or flaunt one's money, Slang blow everything (on): Victor splurged on toys for the children.
spoilsport n. killjoy, damper, dog in the manger, Colloq wet blanket, US party pooper: Some spoilsport tipped off Jane about her surprise birthday party.
sponsor n. 1 backer, supporter, promoter, angel, patron, Maecenas, subsidizer: Make a contribution and we will list you as a sponsor of the games. 2 (radio or television) advertiser: The American broadcasting catch-phrase 'A word from our sponsor' is not to be taken literally. --v. 3 back, support, promote, fund, patronize, subsidize, finance, underwrite: Hughes agreed to sponsor a campaign to clean up the environment.
sporadic adj. occasional, intermittent, random, irregular, uneven, erratic, chance, unexpected; spasmodic(al), fitful, periodic(al): There has been sporadic unrest in that area of the city.
sportive adj. frisky, gambolling, cavorting, frolicking, romping, capering, rollicking, sprightly, coltish, spirited, frolicsome, buoyant, gamesome, gay, kittenish, merry, playful, gleeful, light-hearted, blithe, prankish, waggish: He watched a sportive group of children playing hide-and-seek.
sporty adj. informal, casual; stylish, chic, smart, trendy, fashionable, modish, la mode, up to date, showy, rakish, Colloq swank(y), loud, Slang classy, swell, flashy, snazzy, sharp, US and Canadian spiffy: He came to dinner wearing sporty clothes. Yes, I suppose you might call Fred a sporty dresser.
spotless adj. 1 immaculate, clean, gleaming, shiny, polished, unspotted, spick and span: The floor is so spotless you could eat off it. 2 pure, unsullied, unassailable, flawless, faultless, untarnished, blameless, irreproachable: Samantha has a spotless reputation.
spotty adj. 1 spotted, dotted, speckled, freckled, flecked, blotched, blotchy, stained, marked, pied, piebald, brindle(d), skewbald, mottled, motley, dapple(d), macular, foxed; soiled, dirty; Brit splodgy, splodged or US also splotchy, splotched: Pages of some old books are spotty with brown stains. 2 pimply, pimpled, blotched, blotchy, acned, pock-marked, pocky, bad, Scots plouky or plooky: Ian used to have a spotty complexion, but it's clear now. 3 patchy, irregular, uneven, erratic, sporadic, capricious, fitful: Radio reception in our area is spotty during electrical storms.
sprawl v. 1 spread (out), stretch (out), straddle, ramble, meander, wander, straggle, branch out: Greater Los Angeles sprawls over a huge area of some 450 square miles. 2 spread out, stretch out, loll, lounge, slouch, slump, recline, lie about or around: A dozen guests were sprawled on blankets at the beach party. --n. 3 spread, stretch, expansion, extension: Some suburbs of large cities have been swallowed up in urban sprawl.
spray n. flower or floral arrangement, nosegay, posy, bouquet, sprig, branch, bough: The scores of tiny roses were interspersed with sprays of baby's-breath.
spree n. frolic, romp, lark, outing, escapade, revel, wild party, fling, debauch, orgy, bacchanalia; drinking-bout, carousal, Colloq bender, binge, jag: Bruce has gone off on another of his sprees.
spring v. 1 leap, bound, jump, hop, vault, dart, fly, bounce: He sprang to his feet when she came into the room. When Tom came to the stream, he sprang over it. The leprechaun sprang out from behind a tree. 2 arise, appear, grow, come up, rise, come into being or existence, be born, emerge, sprout, shoot up, burst forth: Where the dragon's teeth were sown, an entire army sprang up. 3 Often, spring up or from. originate, begin, start, evolve; proceed from, stem from, descend from, derive from, come from, develop from: He learned how the practice of scratching the head in perplexity had sprung up. I wondered where the term horse latitudes sprang from. 4 start or begin or experience or cause to occur or appear or happen suddenly or unexpectedly, broach, pop, introduce or divulge or reveal or disclose suddenly or unexpectedly: The canoe sprang a leak and started to sink. He likes to spring trick questions at candidates in an interview. 5 spring for. pay for, treat (someone) to, assume the expense(s) of: If you go to a place I choose, I'll spring for dinner. --n. 6 leap, bound, jump, hop, vault, bounce, skip: In one spring the cat cleared the garden wall and was off. 7 bounciness, bounce, resiliency, resilience, springiness, buoyancy, elasticity, sprightliness, airiness, flexibility: Despite her age, there's still a lot of spring in her step. 8 source, fount, fountain-head, well-spring, well, origin, beginning, root: From what secret spring does his understanding arise? 9 springtime, Eastertide, Maytime: At 35, James is still in the spring of life. --adj. 10 vernal: We exulted in the spring sunshine.
spruce adj. 1 neat, dapper, smart, trim, well turned out, well-groomed, elegant, Colloq natty: Peter Thornton turned up for dinner looking as spruce as can be. --v. 2 spruce up. tidy (up), neaten (up), primp, clean (up), straighten out or up, smarten (up), titivate or tittivate: Some people are coming to dinner, so first spruce up your room and then spruce yourself up.
spur n. 1 goad, prod, urging, impulse, incitement, instigation, prompting, pressure, stimulus, stimulation, incentive, provocation, inducement, encouragement, motive, motivation: The company paid the workers a bonus for each piece they completed as a spur to productivity. 2 projection, prong, spike, spine, gaff, barb, quill, tine, barbel, barbule, process: The hook has a spur that prevents the fish from disengaging. 3 on the spur of the moment. impetuously, impulsively, unthinkingly, unpremeditatedly, impromptu, on the spot; rashly, thoughtlessly, recklessly, hastily, brashly, incautiously, unexpectedly, suddenly: On the spur of the moment, we decided to fly to Cap d'Antibes for the weekend. --v. 4 goad, prod, urge, egg on, impel, incite, prompt, press, push, pressure or Brit pressurize, stimulate, drive, provoke, induce, encourage, motivate, excite, animate: The sales force are spurred on by the huge bonuses the company offers.
spurn v. reject, disdain, scorn, contemn, despise, rebuff, repudiate, refuse, sneer at, snub, brush off, turn down, turn one's back on or upon, look down on or upon, Colloq cold-shoulder, turn one's nose up at, sneeze at: Judith spurned her father's offer of a loan.
spy n. 1 double agent, foreign agent, secret(-service) agent, intelligence agent, undercover agent, mole, fifth-columnist, CIA man or woman or agent, MI5 or MI6 man or woman or agent; informer, informant, Colloq mole, Slang stool-pigeon, stoolie, fink, ratfink: In those days, everyone was a spy and you could trust no one. --v. 2 Usually, spy on or upon. follow, shadow, trail, watch, observe, reconnoitre, keep under surveillance, US surveil, Colloq tail, check out, case: Why should anyone from a foreign government be spying on my mother? 3 espy, glimpse, spot, catch sight or a glimpse of, descry, note, notice, see, discern: I spied him getting into a yellow convertible.
square adj. 1 equilateral, quadrangular, rectangular, right-angled, quadrilateral, four-sided, cubic, cubed, six-sided, boxy: She bought a work of art consisting of three square pieces of red plastic on a mauve ground. He keeps trying to put square pegs into round holes. 2 equal, on a par, even, on equal terms, settled, balanced: With this payment, our accounts are now all square. 3 even, true, exact, straight, accurate, precise, correct: Make sure that the corners are perfectly square. 4 honourable, upright, honest, straightforward, fair (and square), decent, ethical, open, (open and) above-board, right, (right and) proper, clean, just, equitable, Colloq on the level, on the up and up: I have never had anything but square dealings with Fred Latham. 5 healthful, healthy, nutritious, substantial, solid, full, generous, satisfying, filling, unstinting: You could always count on three square meals a day when staying at Auntie Maisie's. 6 nave, innocent; bourgeois, conservative, conventional, unsophisticated, provincial, old-fashioned, conformist, strait-laced, unimaginative, predictable, Colloq antediluvian, uptight, out of it, not with it, not in the know, not hip or hep, unhip, stuffy, behind the times, straight, US L-7: We were at the age when anyone over 25 was considered square. --n. 7 rectilinear figure, rectangle; cube, block: He took a square of wood and quickly carved it into the shape of a duck. 8 plaza, piazza, place, park, (village) green, market-place, market (square), agora, quadrangle: We like to sit on the benches in the square outside my house and chat with the neighbours. 9 bourgeois, conservative, conformist, traditionalist, (old) fogy or fogey, die-hard; outsider; Colloq stuffed shirt, fuddy-duddy, US longhair, L-7, Slang US nerd, dweeb: My parents did not understand me - they were real old squares. --v. 10 stiffen, throw back, straighten (up), tense: I squared my shoulders and prepared for the worst. 11 Usually, square with. meet, match (with), conform to or with, obey, correspond to or with, tally with, accord with, agree with, reconcile with or to: These activities do not square with the plans set out by the directors. 12 adapt, adjust, change, modify, harmonize, accommodate, arrange, comply with, fit: Ronald was unable to square his beliefs with what they were teaching him at the seminary. 13 settle, arrange, come to terms, patch up, clear up, satisfy, fix: Don't worry about the customs officials - I'll square it with them later on.
squeamish adj. 1 dainty, delicate, prudish, punctilious, demanding, critical, exacting, difficult, fussy, scrupulous, fastidious, meticulous, painstaking, finicky or finical, Colloq persnickety or pernickety, fuddy-duddy: The museum directors were too squeamish to put on an exhibition of nudes. 2 nauseous, qualmish, easily disgusted or revolted or nauseated: Sam was too squeamish to watch open-heart surgery on the TV.
squelch v. 1 suppress, subdue, put down, quell, quash, defeat, overcome, outdo, humiliate, Colloq shoot or slap down, take down a peg (or two), take the wind out of (someone's) sails, settle (someone's) hash: The slightest sign of disapproval from Nol was enough to squelch the most arrogant toady. --n. 2 riposte, retort, comeback, quip, sally, gibe or jibe, barb, Colloq wisecrack, put-down: One of the best squelches was when Oscar Wilde said, referring to a bon mot.
squirm v. wriggle, writhe, twist, flounder, shift, fidget, be (very) uncomfortable, agonize, Colloq sweat: The boy squirmed under the stern gaze of the headmaster. stab v. 1 stick, puncture, prick, lance, jab, pierce, run through, impale, gore, transfix, knife, bayonet, skewer, spike, spit, spear, pin; plunge, poke, thrust: In the melee, George was stabbed in the arm. It is said that she stabbed a fork into his hand. 2 stab in the back. harm, betray, sell out, double-cross, give the Judas kiss, play false with: As soon as he had left, they stabbed him in the back by phoning the authorities. --n. 3 puncture, jab, thrust, (stab-)wound: The coroner's office reported that the body had six stabs in the abdomen. 4 attempt, try, essay; guess, conjecture: Even if you are wrong, you lose nothing by making a stab at the right answer. 5 pang, twinge, pain, ache, hurt, stitch: Doctor, I get a terrible stab of pain in my side when I turn that way. 6 stab in the back. treachery, betrayal, double-cross, Judas kiss, kiss of death, duplicity: Informing on someone to the tax inspector is a really nasty stab in the back.
stable adj. 1 steady, solid, firm, sound, sturdy, strong, durable, well-founded, fast, sure, established, deep-rooted, stout: The building is designed to remain stable even in a severe earthquake. 2 lasting, enduring, long-lasting, long-standing, secure, steadfast, steady, strong, unchanging, unchanged, unchangeable, unalterable, fixed, invariable, unwavering, immutable, permanent: A stable relationship has existed between our countries for generations. The relationship you and I enjoy has remained stable all our lives. 3 sane, (well-)balanced, responsible, reasonable, sensible, competent, accountable: He seemed a nice, stable young man, and nobody would have guessed that he had a drugs habit.
stadium n. arena, ground, amphitheatre, hippodrome, coliseum or colosseum, circus: The new football stadium can accommodate 60,000 spectators.
stage n. 1 position, situation, grade, level, stratum, tier, echelon, step, station, place, point, spot, juncture, division, phase, lap; status, condition: We have to reach the third stage before going on to the fourth. 2 platform, dais, podium; rostrum: After the performance, the audience threw flowers onto the stage. 3 the stage. show business, the theatre, the boards, the footlights, Broadway, Chiefly Brit the West End; acting, Thespianism; Colloq showbiz: That first burst of applause decided her to make the stage her career. --v. 4 put on, produce, present, mount, exhibit: If we can't get the theatre, why don't we stage the show in Mr Kimble's barn? 5 put on, contrive, organize, originate, devise, make up, concoct, fake, trump up, stage-manage, manipulate, manoeuvre: It seems that the enthusiastic reception given his wife had been staged solely for his benefit.
stagnant adj. motionless, standing, still, quiet, sluggish, unmoving, immobile, flat; stale, foul, putrid, putrescent, putrefied, polluted, dirty, contaminated, filthy: The malarial mosquitoes thrive in pools of stagnant water in the tropical swamps.
staid adj. sedate, rigid, stiff, prim, dignified, sober, calm, composed, quiet, restrained, solemn, serious, serious-minded, grave, sober-sided: One expects a judge to be rather staid in his behaviour.
stake n. 1 stick, post, spike, picket, paling, pale, pole, pike, stave; palisade, pole, upright, pillar, column: They tied the goat to a stake and hid, waiting for the tiger to catch the scent. 2 pull up stakes. move (house), resettle, move on, migrate, emigrate, leave, depart: It was time to pull up stakes and find a new camp-site. --v. 3 tether, tie (up), secure, fasten, picket, lash, leash, hitch, chain: The ponies were staked out in the pasture. 4 Usually, stake out. (a fence (in or off), confine, pen, enclose, close in or off, hem in, shut in, impound, enclose, cage, wall in: We hired a man to stake out a large enough area to keep the horses. b mark off or out, define, delimit, outline, demarcate, delineate, circumscribe: The pioneers had already staked out the land they planned to cultivate.
stale adj. 1 old, past its prime, unfresh, dry, dried-out, hardened, limp, wilted, withered, flat, sour, turned, (gone) off, mouldy, musty, spoiled, rotten: All the food is stale because you failed to wrap it carefully. 2 old, banal, overused, antiquated, old-fashioned, threadbare, trite, clichd, unoriginal, hackneyed, stereotyped, tired, weary, boring, tiresome, warmed-over, shop-worn, familiar, stock, well-known, Colloq hand-me-down, Brit reach-me-down: These comedians come up with the same old stale jokes year after year.
stalk v. follow, dog, haunt, shadow, trail, track (down), hunt (down), pursue, hound, chase, Colloq tail: The leopard stalked its prey in complete silence.
stall v. 1 stop, halt, die, quit, shut down, fail, cease operating, come to a standstill, Colloq conk out: My car stalled in the middle of rush-hour traffic - isn't that typical? --n. 2 compartment, stand, booth, cubicle, alcove, section, space, area, slot, enclosure, quarters; counter, table: Several antiques dealers had hired stalls in the market. 3 shed, pen, cote, fold, coop, sty, corral, enclosure, cowshed, barn, stable: The animals belong in their stalls at night.
stalwart adj. 1 robust, stout, strong, mighty, powerful, rugged, staunch, hardy, sturdy, vigorous, lusty, indomitable, solid, able-bodied, brawny, sinewy, muscular, fit, healthy, hale, (hale and) hearty, Colloq husky, hefty, beefy: We shall need a dozen stalwart men to carry out the raid. 2 redoubtable, intrepid, undaunted, resolute, firm, determined, unbending, steadfast, tenacious, unswerving, unwavering, unfaltering, unflinching, uncompromising, unyielding, persevering, persistent, unflagging, relentless, tireless, untiring, indefatigable: Although they lost, their lawyers put up a stalwart defence. 3 brave, courageous, daring, intrepid, valiant, heroic, manly, manful, fearless, indomitable, stout-hearted, bold, audacious, game, red-blooded, plucky, mettlesome, lion-hearted, spirited: These stalwart knights met at dawn on the battlefield. --n. 4 supporter, upholder, sustainer, partisan, loyalist, (party) faithful, trouper, hero, heroine: And most of all I want to thank those stalwarts who have supported me throughout this victorious campaign.
stammer v. 1 stutter, hesitate, hem and haw, stumble, falter, pause, Brit hum and haw: Is he stammering from embarrassment or because he has a speech defect? --n. 2 stutter: Many young people who have a stammer lose it when they get out of their teens.
stampede n. 1 rout, flight, scattering, panic, rush, dash: When the store opened its doors for its annual sale, we were nearly trampled in the stampede. --v. 2 panic, frighten, rush, scatter, rout: Millions of buffalo were killed by stampeding them off cliffs. 3 rush, run, race, charge, take to one's heels, flee, take flight: At the cry of 'Fire!', the audience stampeded for the exits.
stanch v. staunch, stop, stem, halt, check, arrest, stay, end, cease; prevent: Apply pressure with a pad to stanch the flow of blood from the wound.
standard n. 1 criterion, measure, benchmark, model, pattern, archetype, touchstone, yardstick, gauge, guide, guideline, paradigm, paragon, exemplar, example, sample, type, ideal, beau idal, rule, canon, law, requirement, precept, principle: The metric system has become the standard in many countries. People resent having imposed on them the standards of another culture. 2 mean, average, norm, par, level, rating: With many luxuries now necessities, the standard of living has improved enormously. The course was for students of intermediate standard. 3 flag, banner, ensign, emblem, pennant, burgee, insigne (singular of insignia), guidon, gonfalon or gonfanon, labarum: The black knight bore a curiously coloured standard into battle. 4 pole, post, stanchion, lamppost, column, pillar, support, pedestal, pier, footing, (upright) bar or rod or timber: The car went out of control and knocked down two lighting standards. --adj. 5 accepted, approved, definitive, defined, authoritative, official, required, regulative, regulatory, textbook: Must we follow standard procedure? The tests were conducted according to the standard methods. 6 recognized, prevailing, prevalent, usual, customary, habitual, orthodox, set, established, regular, familiar, ordinary, traditional, classic, stock, typical, normal, staple, conventional, universal: People in the south usually regard themselves as speakers of standard English.
stand-by n. 1 supporter, defender, backer, upholder, partisan, sympathizer, adherent, stalwart: His mother had always been his stand-by against the severity of his father. 2 substitute, surrogate, replacement, backup, understudy, second, US and Canadian alternate: They had a second ambulance as a stand-by in case the first broke down or needed servicing. 3 resource, support, replacement: I knew I could always count on you as a stand-by in case I had trouble.
standing adj. 1 established, set, standard, conventional, customary, usual, normal, regular, fixed, permanent, continued, continuing, regular: The club has standing rules concerning use of the card-room. 2 stagnant, motionless, unmoving, stationary, still, static: Insects bred in the standing pools of rainwater. 3 continuous, fixed, ongoing, perpetual, unbroken: Michael placed a standing order for six cases of Beaujolais Nouveau every November. 4 erect, upright, on one's feet, vertical, unseated: Please remain standing till the signal is given to be seated. --n. 5 status, rank, station, position, place, grade, order, level, stratum: Considering her standing in the party, Mrs Miller ought to win the nomination easily. 6 eminence, prominence, repute, reputation: Foster is a surgeon of considerable standing. 7 Usually, long standing. (considerable) age or longevity or experience or seniority or duration: Ivan is an art expert of long standing.
standpoint n. viewpoint, point of view, vantage point, perspective, position, angle, view: From the standpoint of mice, cats do not make good pets.
staple adj. 1 basic, elementary, essential, necessary, requisite, required, vital, indispensable, critical, fundamental, primary, principal, main, chief: These people cannot afford even staple commodities like flour and salt. 2 standard, usual, habitual, ordinary, customary, prevailing, normal, conventional, universal: The staple fare on television seems to consist of old and new sitcoms. --n. 3 Often, staples. necessities, essentials, basics, fundamentals: Supermarkets disperse low-cost staples such as bread, tea, and milk to force shoppers to pass luxury items. Marital and financial problems are the staples of soap operas.
stare v. 1 gaze, gape, goggle, gawk, watch, Colloq rubberneck, Slang Brit gawp: The people were powerless to do anything but stare as the molten lava engulfed the city. --n. 2 fixed or blank look; goggle, gaze: The teacher fixed her with a stare and she blushed with guilt.
start v. 1 Often, start off or up. begin, commence, get (something) going, get off the ground, originate, initiate, open, set in motion, activate, embark on; set in motion, turn or switch on, crank up, Colloq kick off: They started operations at once. I can't start my car. 2 Often, start off or up or in. arise, come up, come to be or into being, emerge, crop up, develop, begin, commence, get under way, originate: How did this situation start? 3 Often, start off or up or in. go, leave, depart, get going, move (off or out or on), get under way, set off or out or forth, Colloq hit the road, get the show on the road: You start and I'll follow shortly. 4 Often, start in. begin, commence, get or start the ball rolling, get things under way, be on one's way, get going: When I went in I found that she had started without me. 5 jump, flinch, blench, quail, shy, recoil, wince, shrink, draw back: He started when he saw her suddenly behind him in the mirror. 6 cause to spring or leap or dart or jump or bound: Any abrupt movement will start the plovers from cover. 7 establish, found, begin, set up, initiate, institute, create, father, give birth to, beget: It was her ideas that started the current trend in mystery novels. 8 bulge, protrude, stick out; Colloq US bug out: Warping caused these boards to start from the floor. When he saw what was in his swimming-pool, his eyes started from their sockets. --n. 9 beginning, opening, move: This is not very good, but it's a start. 10 beginning, commencement, opening, outset, onset, inception, start-up: The start of the race is set for ten o'clock. 11 beginning(s), inception, birth, initiation, onset, rise, genesis, creation, emergence, origin: The start of the blues can be traced to New Orleans. 12 opportunity, chance, beginning; help, assistance, aid, backing, financing, sponsorship, encouragement, Colloq break: Her father-in-law gave her the start she needed in business. 13 head start, advantage, edge, lead, Colloq (the) jump, US and New Zealand drop (on someone): Having the inside track gave her a start on the competition. If he has a ten-minute start, we'll never catch him. 14 inauguration, opening, beginning, initiation, Colloq kick-off: When is the start of the salmon fishing season this year? 15 beginning(s), founding, foundation, establishment, inception, birth, origin: This company had its start in 1781.
startling adj. shocking, terrifying, frightening, astounding, astonishing, awesome, staggering, jarring, disturbing, unsettling, upsetting, amazing, surprising: Monica fainted when told the startling news.
state n. 1 condition(s), circumstance(s), situation, state of affairs, status, shape, position: He was concerned about the state of the company's finances. 2 structure, form, constitution, shape, phase, stage: One does not see iodine in its gaseous state outside the laboratory. 3 grandeur, pomp, style, splendour, magnificence, glory, brilliance: The prince was met at the airport and escorted in state to the palace. 4 nation, country, land, body politic: No longer a colony, it became an independent state in 1952. --adj. 5 governmental, government, national, federal: The State schools in the town had a good reputation. 6 ceremonial, formal, dignified, stately, solemn, official; royal, regal, imperial, majestic: We attended a state dinner at the White House. The Queen travelled in the state coach from Buckingham Palace to Westminster. --v. 7 aver, assert, asseverate, declare, affirm, express, report, articulate, voice, specify, delineate, claim, maintain, allege, submit, confirm; say, testify, hold, have: He has often stated his firm belief in democracy. He stated firmly that he was not in the house on the night of the murder.
statement n. assertion, allegation, declaration, expression, report, account, affirmation, asseveration, averral, announcement, annunciation, proclamation, utterance, communication, communiqu, disclosure: Your statement is subject to interpretation. He made a long and detailed statement about the future of the project.
station n. 1 place, position, spot, post, site, location: The sentry is not to leave his station till relieved. 2 position, place, status, rank, caste, standing, class, level: As a doctor, he attained a station in life far above that of his father. 3 railway station, train station, passenger station, bus station, US and Canadian depot: Let's meet in the waiting-room in the station. --v. 4 position, place, spot, post, site, locate, assign, appoint, garrison, install or instal, Colloq billet: He was stationed in three different places in four years.
statue n. sculpture, figure, figurine, statuette, carving, casting, model, bronze, image, icon or ikon, effigy, representation; bust, atlas, caryatid, colossus, figurehead, Biblical graven image: A statue of Disraeli stands in the market square of Aylesbury.
status n. 1 eminence, prominence, pre-eminence, standing, stature, importance, significance, repute, reputation, rank, station: Few could approach Keith's status as a pathologist. 2 See standing, 5, above.
stay v. 1 remain, stop, continue, tarry, wait, stand, Colloq freeze: Stay where you are or I'll shoot! 2 remain, stop, lodge, sojourn, abide, reside, dwell, live, visit: I heard that Sheila was back in town, staying at her aunt's. 3 keep, remain, continue to be: I was having trouble staying awake. 4 stop, arrest, thwart, prevent, put an end to, halt, interrupt, block, check; curb, retard, slow, impede, foil, obstruct, hamper, hinder, discourage, deter; delay, postpone, put off, discontinue, defer, Technical prorogue: Only one man has the authority to stay the execution. What can be done to stay the advance of the killer bees? 5 linger, loiter, wait, tarry, stop, remain, Archaic bide: I like this part of the world and plan to stay here a while. --n. 6 stop, stoppage, arrest, set-back, check, halt, prevention, discontinuance, discontinuation, interruption, blockage, delay, postponement, deferment, deferral, reprieve: Have you been able to arrange a stay in carrying out the sentence? 7 stopover, sojourn, visit, stop: We really enjoyed our stay at Fred's house in Fort Lauderdale.
steadfast adj. resolute, determined, persevering, resolved, single-minded, steady, unflinching, unfaltering, unwavering, unswerving, indefatigable, dependable, immovable, stable, firm, fixed, constant, persistent, unflagging, tireless, enduring, dedicated, deep-rooted, faithful, true, loyal, staunch: For years Janet has been steadfast in supporting the cause. Stephen was a steadfast friend and will never be forgotten.
steal v. 1 take (away), appropriate, filch, shoplift, pilfer, purloin, make or walk off or away with, get away with; embezzle, misappropriate, peculate; Colloq lift, pinch, hook, snitch, borrow, US boost, liberate, heist, hijack, Slang swipe, Brit nick, prig, US hoist: The thieves stole only the emeralds, leaving the diamonds. The bookkeeper stole the money by diverting it into his own account. 2 plagiarize, pirate, copy, imitate, appropriate, usurp, take: He claims that the story of the film was stolen from his short story. 3 sneak, creep, slip, tiptoe, prowl, lurk, skulk, Colloq pussyfoot: Silently, we stole into the garden at the rear of the house. --n. 4 bargain, (good) buy, Colloq give-away: At that price, the rug was a steal!
stealth n. furtiveness, secrecy, clandestineness, surreptitiousness, sneakiness, slyness, underhandedness: What the thieves lacked in stealth they compensated for in knowledge of art.
steamy adj. 1 humid, steaming, damp, moist, muggy, sticky, dank, sweaty, sweltering, sodden, sultry, boiling, wet: We were not prepared for the steamy jungle of equatorial Africa. 2 steamed (up), fogged (up), befogged, misty, misted, hazy, clouded, cloudy, beclouded, dim, blurred: Every time I take a hot shower, the bathroom mirror gets all steamy. 3 erotic, passionate, (sexually) exciting, arousing, hot, Colloq sexy, Slang horny: The film was notorious for its steamy scenes.
steely adj. 1 greyish, grey: His steely blue eyes pierced deep into her soul. 2 iron, tough, indurate, adamant, adamantine, hard, strong, rugged, unyielding, flinty, sturdy: She was a woman of steely determination.
steep v. 1 soak, submerge, souse, drench, immerse, saturate, douse, wet, ret; pickle, marinate: Before cooking, the meat has to be steeped in brine for at least six hours to tenderize it. 2 imbue, fill, saturate, immerse, inundate; bury: He learnt Japanese by steeping himself in the language for six months.
stellar adj. 1 astral, star, sidereal: The sidereal year is based on stellar calculations. 2 chief, starring, principal, leading, main, headlining: For years Lee has been a stellar performer on the golf circuit.
stem v. 1 check, stop, halt, stanch or staunch, arrest, stay, curb, control, quell, suppress; retard, slow, lessen, diminish, reduce, cut (back (on)): The government introduced legislation to stem immigration. I was able to stem the bleeding by applying the tourniquet. 2 stem the tide (of). resist, withstand, go or make headway or advance or make progress against, prevail over or against: They were unable to stem the tide of public opinion.
stenographer n. secretary, amanuensis, stenotypist, tachygrapher, phonographer: The court stenographer read back part of the testimony.
step n. 1 movement, move: The steps of the dance were very intricate. 2 footfall, footstep, tread: I think I hear father's step on the stair. 3 footstep, footprint, trace, spoor, track, trace, mark, impression; imprint, vestige: In his master's steps he trod, where the snow lay dinted. 4 action, initiative, measure, activity, procedure, move, motion: What steps are needed to improve the situation? 5 stage, move, gradation, degree, progression: Can we not proceed from one to the other in easy steps? 6 pace, footstep, stride: My mother's cottage is just a few steps away, at the bottom of the garden. 7 in step (with). in keeping (with), in harmony or agreement (with), harmonious (with), agreeable (with), according (with or to), concordant (with), attuned (to), in tune (with), consonant (with), consistent (with), appropriate (to), fitting (for); conventional, traditional, routine: Do you think that her ideas of discipline are in step with the times? I am not sure they are in step at all. 8 out of step (with). out of keeping (with), out of or not in harmony or agreement (with), not harmonious (with), not agreeable (with), not according (with or to), discordant (with), not concordant (with), not attuned (to), out of tune (with), not consonant (with), inconsistent (with), inappropriate (to), not fitting (for); offbeat, unconventional, eccentric, Slang kinky: You must admit that her views are out of step with the committee's. 9 step by step. gradually, a step at a time, slowly, steadily: The way to unravel the problem is to analyse it step by step. 10 steps. a course, way, route, direction, path, movement, passage; journey, journeying, travels, travelling: After leaving the village, I directed my steps southward, towards the coast. b stairway, stairs, stair, staircase, stepladder, US and Canadian stoop: Claire walked down the steps to greet me. 11 take steps. proceed, move, begin or start or commence to act or to take action, do something: We must take steps to prevent this from happening again. 12 watch one's step. tread carefully or cautiously, be cautious or careful, exercise care or caution, be wary or discreet, be on the qui vive, be or remain alert, be on one's guard, have or keep one's wits about one, take care or heed, Colloq pussyfoot about: You must really watch your step with Marnie to avoid upsetting her. --v. 13 move, walk, look; pace, stride: Step lively or you'll miss your last chance to see the elephants. 14 step down. a resign, abdicate, quit, bow out, retire: Don't you think it time you stepped down from the chairmanship? b decrease, diminish, reduce: Using this transformer, we can step down the voltage gradually. 15 step in. intervene, interfere, intercede, become involved: It seemed the right time for us to step in and take over the company. 16 step on it. hurry (up), make haste, hasten, speed up: He'd better step on it if he is going to catch his plane. 17 step out. a go outside or out of doors, leave: Would you mind stepping out for a few minutes while we settle this in private? b go out, socialize: Notice how quickly Genevieve has started stepping out again after her bereavement. c become disinvolved, withdraw, secede: Our firm stepped out of the negotiations when we saw who was bidding. 18 step up. a improve, progress: George has certainly stepped up in the world since I knew him at university. b increase, accelerate, raise, intensify, boost, escalate, up, speed up: They stepped up the pace until she could no longer keep up with them.
sterilize v. 1 purify, disinfect, cleanse, clean, fumigate, depurate, Technical autoclave: Sterilize the instruments before using them. 2 castrate (males), emasculate (males), geld (horses), spay (female animals), alter (animals), neuter (animals), caponize (male fowl), eunuchize (males), Technical ovariectomize (females), vasectomize (males), Colloq fix (animals), cut (male animals), Slang tie (someone's) tubes: Steers - that is, sterilized bulls - yield tenderer meat.
stern adj. 1 austere, severe, strict, stringent, demanding, critical, rigid, rigorous, flinty, steely, authoritarian, uncompromising, hard, tough, inflexible, firm, immovable, unmoved, unrelenting, unremitting, steadfast, resolute, determined, unyielding, adamant, adamantine, obdurate, hard-hearted, stony, stony-hearted, unsparing, unforgiving, unsympathetic, harsh: Discipline in the French Foreign Legion is said to be quite stern. 2 serious, frowning, grim, forbidding, grave, gloomy, dour, sombre, saturnine, lugubrious, gruff, taciturn, crabby, crabbed, crusty, churlish, sour: Beneath that terribly stern exterior he really is a pussy-cat.
stick v. 1 pierce, thrust, stab, transfix, pin, spike, impale, spear, spit, run through, poke, gore, jab, prick, puncture, punch, penetrate, drill, bore, riddle, perforate: He stuck the wild boar with his spear. 2 put, drop, place, deposit, Colloq shove, plonk, plunk, plop: Stick another ice cube in my drink, would you? 3 put, poke, push, thrust, prod, dig; insert: She stuck her head out of the window to get a better look. Stop sticking your finger in my ribs! 4 attach, fasten, affix, fix, nail, pin, tack; glue, cement, paste, gum, weld, solder, bind, tie, tape, wire; bond, melt, fuse, unite, join: What shall we used to stick the poster to the wall? How can I stick the pieces of the vase together again? 5 Often, stick together. cohere, adhere, stay or remain or cleave or cling together: I cannot make these parts stick together. 6 hold, last, endure, go through, be upheld, be or remain effective, remain attached: The prosecutor was unable to make a charge of murder stick. 7 linger, dwell, remain (fixed), continue, stay; be or become lodged or stopped or fixed or fast or immovable or stationary, be or become entangled or enmired or bogged down: Something sticks in my mind about your leaving next week. We were stuck in the Sunday traffic for hours. The wheel is stuck in the sand. 8 burden, weigh down, encumber, saddle with, charge, impose on, force on: We stuck Tony with the nasty job of changing the tyre. 9 baffle, puzzle, bewilder, perplex, confuse, stump, stop, nonplus: I was totally stuck for a solution. 10 stand, abide, tolerate, endure, bear: I can't stick people watching me while I am painting. 11 stick around or about. wait, tarry, linger, stay, stand by, remain, Colloq hang around or about or on: Can you stick around for a few minutes after the meeting? 12 stick at. stop at, hesitate at, pause at, scruple at, be deterred or put off by, take exception to, shrink from or at, balk at: Barnes sticks at nothing to get his way. 13 stick by. support, be loyal or faithful to, stand by: Arnold will stick by you, come what may. 14 stick it (out). persevere, persist, stand fast, bear it, be resolute, soldier on, hold (one's) ground, grin and bear it, see it through, weather it, Colloq US tough it out: It was a very hard job, but I stuck it out to the very end. 15 stick out or up. protrude, jut (out), extend, project, poke (out); bulge, obtrude, stand out, overhang, beetle: Stick out your tongue. What is sticking out of your ear? Balconies stick out from all sides of the building. 16 stick together. a unite, unify, join (forces), consolidate, merge, confederate, amalgamate, cooperate, work together: The family always sticks together at times of crisis. b See 5, above. 17 stick up. a rob, mug, Colloq hold up, US heist: They stuck up a bank courier this morning, in broad daylight! b put up, post, affix, display: We went round town sticking up posters for our candidate. 18 stick up for. rally to the support of, support, stand by or up for, defend, speak for or in behalf of, take up the cudgels for; put one's money where one's mouth is, have the courage of one's convictions: A person must stick up for what he thinks is right. 19 stick with. persevere, persist, stay or remain or continue with, not change one's mind about: Stick with me, kid, and you'll wear diamonds. I'll stick with the smoked eel as a starter.
stick-in-the-mud n. (old) fogy or fogey, conservative, anachronism, Colloq fuddy-duddy, fossil, square, back number: Her husband was a terrible stick-in-the-mud and would never try anything new.
stiff adj. 1 firm, rigid, inelastic, unbending, inflexible, hard, unbendable, tough, solid, solidified, stiffened, unyielding, brittle: The table napkins were so stiff with starch that I almost cracked one. 2 severe, harsh, punitive, hurtful, punishing, abusive, torturous, distressing, afflictive, painful, overwhelming, unbearable, tormenting, merciless, excruciating, cruel, drastic, US cruel and unusual: The government here has stiff penalties for drug traffickers. 3 strong, potent, powerful, overpowering, alcoholic: After that kind of an ordeal, you could use a stiff drink, I'm sure. 4 vigorous, energetic, staunch, dogged, tenacious, resolute, resolved, determined, stubborn, obstinate, unyielding, indomitable, relentless: They met with stiff opposition in trying to capture the fort. 5 strong, steady, powerful, fresh, brisk, spanking, gusty, forceful, howling: We had to reduce sail because of a stiff westerly wind. 6 excessive, exorbitant, high, steep, expensive, dear: They are asking a pretty stiff price these days for a bottle of good vintage port. 7 cool, haughty, rigid, wooden, stuffy, aloof, tense, intense, unrelaxed, forced, pompous, stilted, mannered, ceremonious, austere, formal, chilly, cold, unfriendly, standoffish, reserved, snobbish, Colloq snooty, Slang uptight: Vince is warm and friendly, but his wife is as stiff as a poker. 8 stilted, unrelaxed, wooden, forced, artificial, laboured, pedantic, turgid, formal, prim, Colloq stuffy: I have always found her writing to be rather stiff. 9 difficult, hard, steep, uphill, laborious, arduous, tiring, fatiguing, exhausting, harrowing, toilsome, rigorous, challenging, Colloq rough, tough: It is quite a stiff climb to the top of the pyramid of Cheops. That was a stiff homework assignment. 10 solid, semi-solid, firm, hard, thick, dense, compact: If you add a bit more water the next time, the jelly won't get quite so stiff. --n. 11 corpse, body, cadaver: Barry had to go down to the morgue to identify some stiff they hauled out of the river. 12 skinflint, miser, Colloq cheapskate, Slang piker, US and Canadian tightwad: A stiff is a customer who fails to leave a tip.
stifle v. 1 suffocate, smother, choke, strangle, throttle, asphyxiate: The firemen were almost stifled by the smoke from the chemical fire. 2 choke back, keep or hold back, withhold, repress, suppress, hold in, restrain, prevent, curb, cover up, control: I stifled a yawn as John went on about his grandchildren. 3 destroy, crush, demolish, extinguish, stamp out, kill, quash, silence, stop, check: Under his tyrannical rule all artistic creativity was stifled for fifty years.
stigmatize v. brand, mark, scar, blemish, besmirch, sully, disparage, depreciate, denounce, condemn, calumniate, defame, pillory, slander: His foul treachery stigmatized his entire family. still adj. 1 quiet, serene, placid, calm, tranquil, motionless, unmoving, peaceful, pacific, at rest, quiescent, even, flat, smooth, inert, stationary, undisturbed, unruffled: In the moonlight, the lake lay still and dark. 2 silent, quiet, noiseless, soundless; hushed, restful, Literary stilly: Be still or they'll hear you! In the still night I heard the distant sound of an owl. --n. 3 stillness, hush, quiet, silence, tranquillity, noiselessness, peacefulness, calm: In the still of the evening came the call of the nightingale. --adv. 4 even now, to or till or until this or that time, (up) till or until now, yet: Henry came for dinner five years ago, and he's here still. Do you still smoke? 5 even, in addition: Hugh weighed twenty stone when you last saw him, but he's heavier still today. 6 notwithstanding, yet, even then: Are you still going to Sue's party, despite what she said?. 7 motionless(ly), quiet(ly), silent(ly), stock-still: Lie still while I put on this bandage. --conj. 8 however, but, notwithstanding, nevertheless, even so, in any event, in any case: She said she'd be here; still, you never know, she may come later. --v. 9 calm, allay, assuage, alleviate, relieve, silence, lull, quiet(en), pacify, soothe, mollify, appease, subdue, suppress: A few kind words and she had stilled my fears.
stimulant n. 1 stimulus, incentive, provocation, spur, prompt, goad, urge, prod, fillip, impetus, incitement, drive, impulse, push, pull, draw: She yielded readily to the stimulants of literature, science, and the fine arts. 2 energizer, antidepressant, tonic, restorative, Colloq bracer, pick-me-up, shot in the arm, Slang pep pill, upper, bennie, speed: He found he couldn't get through the day without a stimulant.
stimulating adj. exciting, inspirational, inspiring, arousing, stirring, animating, exhilarating, provocative, thought-provoking: I cannot recall having spent a more stimulating evening in the theatre.
stinker n. wretch, villain, scoundrel, cad, heel, beast, cur, viper, snake in the grass, skunk, swine, polecat, Rather old-fashioned blackguard, rogue, Archaic knave, varlet, dastard, (base) caitiff, Colloq stinkpot, louse, creep, rat, Brit nasty piece of work, sod, Old-fashioned rotter, bounder, blighter, Slang (rotten) bastard, son of a bitch, Brit toerag, bugger, US SOB, bum, stinkeroo or stinkaroo, Taboo slang shit, Brit arse-hole, US ass-hole: They were a lovely couple, but their son was a real stinker.
stint n. 1 share, quota, allotment, bit, assignment, stretch, shift, term, time, job, chore, task, routine, turn, tour, duty, responsibility, obligation, charge: She had done her stint of washing-up and refused to do any more. 2 control, curb, limit, limitation, restriction, check, restraint, constraint, condition, qualification, reservation: The committee is free to exercise without stint its power to raise membership fees. --v. 3 control, curb, limit, restrict: Don't stint yourself, lunch is on the firm. 4 skimp, scrimp, be stingy or cheap or penurious or parsimonious or sparing or frugal, hold back (on), withhold, economize, pinch (pennies), cut corners, Colloq Brit be mingy: They certainly didn't stint on the food and drink at Andrea's party.
stipulate v. specify, demand, require, covenant, set forth, agree (to), provide (for), guarantee, warrant, promise, insist (upon or on); call for: The agreement stipulates that the goods be received prior to payment. The compensation stipulated in the contract has been paid.
stir v. 1 Often, stir up. agitate, shake (up), mix (up), scramble, amalgamate, mingle, commingle, intermingle, merge, blend, fold (in), churn (up), beat, whip (up): Stir all the ingredients together. 2 move, rise, arise, get up, bestir (oneself), be up and about, Colloq get a move on, get moving, get a wiggle on, shake a leg, look or step lively, look alive, stir one's stumps: It is about time you were up and stirring. 3 disturb, trouble, affect, upset, stimulate, activate: The play stirred the conscience of the king. Mention 'diet' to Roberta and you'll stir up a wasp's nest. 4 Often, stir up. motivate, encourage, stimulate, energize, galvanize, electrify, animate, excite, inspire, provoke, move, rouse, arouse, get, prompt, urge, incite, spur, prod, induce, persuade, convince: What will it take to stir the council to take action? The usual rabble-rousers were there, stirring up the crowd. 5 Often, stir up. awaken, rouse, (cause to) recall or call to mind, revive, resuscitate: Those photographs stir up so many old memories! --n. 6 bustle, activity, movement, stirring, action, commotion, flurry, confusion, tumult, ado, to-do, fuss, disturbance, excitement, hubbub, Colloq Brit kerfuffle: There was a stir at the door, which was flung wide to allow Kitty to sweep in. The news of her marriage caused quite a stir. 7 prison, jail or Brit also gaol, jail-house, clink, penitentiary, lock-up, Military Brit glasshouse, US brig, Slang chiefly Brit quod, US big house, pen, slammer, can, calaboose: He claims he's in stir for something he didn't do.
stock n. 1 supply, store, inventory, stockpile, reserve, reservoir, cache, hoard; wares, merchandise, goods, selection, assortment, range, variety, array: One can select something suitable from the stock at the local wine shop. 2 pedigree, bloodline, house, dynasty, (line of) descent, genealogy, extraction, roots, lineage, family, ancestry, parentage, breeding, heritage: Her mother was concerned that she should marry someone of good stock. 3 source, progenitor, creator, father, begetter, forefather, ancestor, precursor, forerunner, forebear; founder: He might well provide the stock for a new line of kings. 4 livestock, (domestic or farm) animals, cattle, beasts; horses, cows, oxen, sheep, goats: Don't forget to water the stock before driving to the village. 5 share, ownership, investment, capital, funds; property, assets: He owned ten shares of stock in the corporation. The company's stock is worth next to nothing today. 6 take stock. weigh (up), estimate, review, appraise, look at, Colloq size up: We must take stock of the situation and decide what to do. --adj. 7 routine, stereotyped, banal, clichd, commonplace, usual, hackneyed, ordinary, stale, staple, run-of-the-mill, tired, old, everyday, customary, set, standard, traditional, trite, worn out, Colloq corny: Ask him how he is and you always get his stock reply, 'Fair to meddling'. 8 standard, ordinary, regular, routine, staple: The shop does not carry 'extra tall' or 'extra short', only stock sizes. --v. 9 carry, have, have or make available, handle, deal in, market, sell, supply, furnish, provide, offer, trade in, keep: The shop stocked a wide range of hardware. 10 Often, stock up (on). accumulate, amass, pile up, stockpile, hoard, store (up), cache, lay in, inventory: Everyone stocked up on food in case the village was blocked by snow.
stodgy adj. stuffy, dull, heavy, ponderous, elephantine, boring, tedious, humdrum, tiresome, turgid, uninteresting, unimaginative, dry-as-dust, jejune, vapid, dreary, flat, colourless, bland, Colloq ho-hum, blah, deadly: The speaker was boring and gave the stodgiest talk I have ever heard.
stoicism n. indifference, self-possession, austerity, self-control, fortitude, calmness, calm, coolness, imperturbability, longanimity, forbearance, patience, fatalism, resignation, Colloq unflappability: The people accepted the news of one defeat after another with increasing stoicism.
stolid adj. impassive, dull, doltish, obtuse, thick, dense, bovine, wooden, slow, lumpish, unemotional, clod-like, phlegmatic, lethargic, apathetic, indifferent, uninterested: He was a stolid character, very different from his dynamic younger brother.
stony adj. 1 stoney, rocky, pebbly, shingly, shingled: Some of the beaches along the Riviera are too stony to lie on directly. 2 stoney, hard, obdurate, adamant, adamantine, heartless, stony-hearted, hard-hearted, indifferent, unsympathetic, implacable, intractable, heartless, insensitive, insensible, unfeeling, unsentimental, merciless, pitiless, cold, cold-hearted, chilly, frigid, icy, tough, callous, steely, inflexible, unresponsive, Colloq hard-boiled: He listened to her pleadings in stony silence. 3 bankrupt, penniless, indigent, poverty-stricken, poor, Colloq broke, Chiefly Brit stoney, stony-broke or stoney-broke, skint: At the time, I was so stony I didn't have two pennies to rub together.
stop v. 1 discontinue, halt, terminate, cease, break off, end, put an end or a stop to, bring to a stop or a halt or an end or a close, give up, quit, leave off, finish, conclude, desist (from), refrain (from), abandon; draw to a close, be over, come to a stop or a halt or an end or a close; Colloq cut (out), lay off, Brit pack in: Stop shouting, I'm not deaf. The car stopped suddenly. Will the fighting ever stop? 2 bring to a stop or a halt or a standstill, check, cut off; arrest, suppress, restrain, thwart; block, bar, obstruct, dam, keep or hold back, prevent, hinder; slow, impede, stem, stanch or staunch: The main problem was how to stop drug trafficking. Can we stop the river from flooding? This tourniquet will stop the bleeding. 3 Often, stop up. obstruct, block (up), jam (up), plug (up), clog (up), choke (up), stuff (up), fill (up), close (up or off): The drain was all stopped up with paper. 4 peter out, be over, end: He gave me an injection and the pain finally stopped. 5 pause, break, take a break, interrupt, tarry; sojourn, rest, stay, put up, lodge, visit, stop off or in or over; pull over, pull up: I'd like to stop for a cup of coffee. I stopped at The Bell Inn on my way here. We stopped short at the sign. --n. 6 halt, end, cessation, termination, ban, prohibition; close, standstill, conclusion: The new law put a stop to door-to-door selling. We must bring that practice to a stop. 7 stay, sojourn, visit, break, rest, stopover, US layover: We thoroughly enjoyed our stop in Brighton. 8 stopping-place, station, terminal, stage, terminus, US and Canadian depot: There is a bus stop in the next street. 9 blockage, blocking, stopping (up), stoppage, closing up, obstruction, block: A stop in the water supply was soon cleared up.
stopper n. stopple, cork, plug, bung: I had problems getting the stopper out of the barrel.
storehouse n. warehouse, depository or depositary, repository, storeroom, bank, store, (In Asia) godown; arsenal, magazine, armoury: The company maintains storehouses in a dozen countries to better supply their customers.
storm n. 1 tempest, disturbance, turbulence; wind-storm, mistral, gale, whirlwind, hurricane, tornado, typhoon, cyclone, US and Canadian williwaw; shower, cloudburst, downpour, rainstorm, deluge, monsoon, thunder-shower, thunderstorm, electrical storm; dust-storm, sandstorm, simoom or simoon or samiel, harmattan, khamsin, sirocco; snowstorm, blizzard; hailstorm, ice-storm: People were evacuated from the area where it was thought the storm would strike. 2 outburst, outcry, explosion, eruption, outpouring, furore or US furor: The proposed taxes were met by a storm of protest. 3 disturbance, rumpus, stir, commotion, agitation, furore or US furor; turbulence, strife, turmoil, disorder: I am not sure the company could weather another serious financial storm. --v. 4 rage, rant, rave, bluster, fume, explode, thunder, roar, raise the roof, raise hell, raise Cain, Colloq fly off the handle, blow one's top, US blow one's stack: When she found out where Laura had gone, mother stormed round the house. 5 blow, rain, hail, snow, sleet, rage, bluster, squall, howl: It stormed for a week, and much property was destroyed. 6 attack, assault, assail, raid, blitz, blitzkrieg, bombard, barrage, fire upon or on, shell; besiege, lay siege to, siege: The enemy stormed the castle again and again without effect.
story n. 1 narrative, tale, recounting, anecdote, yarn; account, recital, chronicle, record, history; legend, myth, fairy tale or story, romance, gest or geste, fable, fabliau; epic, saga, Edda; joke, Colloq gag; mystery, detective story, whodunit, thriller; horror story; allegory, parable; piece, article: In olden days, the historians were the story tellers. George really knows how to tell a story. Have any of your stories been published? 2 contention, testimony, assertion, version, statement, representation, allegation: That's his story and he's sticking to it. 3 fib, confabulation, (white or black) lie, alibi, excuse, untruth, falsehood; tall tale, fishing or fish story: He told us some story about having sailed round the world single-handed in a dinghy. Did you believe her story about being of royal blood? 4 article, item, report, dispatch, news, tidings, release, information, copy, feature; scoop, exclusive: A story about China appears on page two. 5 story-line, plot, scenario, (plot) outline, summary, book: The story needs some revision before the dialogue can be rewritten. 6 biography, curriculum vitae, life (story); facts, experiences, adventures, fortunes: His story is going to be made into a film.
stow v. pack, store, load, deposit, put (away), place; cram, stuff, wedge, bundle, jam; hide, secrete, conceal, cache, Colloq stash (away): We stowed our gear the moment we went aboard. They couldn't stow another thing in the basement. Where did he stow the pistol when the police searched the place?
straight adj. 1 direct, unbending, undeviating, uncurved, regular, linear: The tracks are straight for as far as the eye can see. 2 erect, vertical, upright, upstanding, perpendicular; plumb: Stop slouching and stand up straight. He stood straight as a ramrod. 3 even, square, true, right, flat, smooth, horizontal, level: Are you sure that the billiard table is straight? 4 honest, frank, straightforward, direct, forthright, legitimate, (fair and) square, fair, equitable, just, above-board, upright, respectable, decent, trustworthy, honourable, dependable, reliable, Colloq upfront: Sternway seems to be perfectly straight in his business dealings. 5 unequivocal, unambiguous, straightforward, candid, plain, simple, explicit, blunt, unembellished, unelaborated, unqualified, outright, accurate: The straight facts are given in this article. The police cannot get a straight story out of him as to his whereabouts last night. 6 direct, point-blank, straightforward, straight from the shoulder, candid, outright, plain, frank, no-nonsense: Do you mind answering a straight question? 7 shipshape, orderly, neat, tidy, in order, arranged, organized, sorted out, spruce, straightened out: I wish Leonard would put his room straight before the guests arrive. 8 sober, staid, sedate, serious, unsmiling, unemotional, impassive, emotionless, taciturn, composed, mask-like: It was impossible to keep a straight face during the school play. 9 undiluted, neat, unmixed, pure, unadulterated, uncut, unmodified, unaltered, unalloyed: He likes his whisky straight. 10 even, square, settled, straightened out, agreed: The account will be straight when Dick makes the last payment. 11 heterosexual, normal, Slang hetero: Till Evelyn came out of the closet, I thought he was straight. --adv. 12 directly, right, undeviatingly, unswervingly; as the crow flies, in a beeline: I should have known she would go straight to the police. 13 (straight) ahead: Go straight for a mile and you'll see it on the right. 14 Sometimes, straight out. directly, unequivocally, unambiguously, forthrightly, straightforwardly, point-blank, candidly, plainly, simply, in plain or simple English, explicitly, outright, honestly, accurately: Just give me the story straight, without beating about the bush. 15 Often, straight away or off. immediately, at once, without delay, instantly, summarily, directly, right (away or off), right off the bat, promptly, Colloq pdq (= 'pretty damned quick'): She went back to work straight after having the baby. I told him straight off to leave town. 16 straight up. without ice: I like my gin straight up.
strain v. 1 stretch, force, tax, overtax, burden, overburden, overwork, push; exceed, surpass: His story that a bushy-haired intruder had shot her strained the jury's credulity. 2 push, pull, tug, heave, stretch, twist, wrench, struggle: As he strained at his bonds the rope cut more deeply into his wrists. 3 injure, hurt, harm, impair, damage, overwork, tax, pull, tear, twist, wrench: I strained my back lifting that box of books. 4 stretch, crane, twist; try (hard), struggle, strive, labour, toil, push, make an effort, exert oneself: She strained to catch a glimpse of the prince. They strained to hear every word. 5 filter, sift, drain, screen, sieve; winnow, draw off, separate; purify, seep, percolate: Strain the soup to remove the bones. Strain the dregs from the wine. The water is then strained through sand. --n. 6 sprain, injury, damage, harm, wrench: Strains often hurt more than broken bones. 7 anxiety, worry; effort, exertion, stress, tension, pressure, burden; tax, demand, obligation: The strain began to tell on all of us. Another rope was needed to relieve the strain on the first. This advertising budget will put a great strain on our resources. 8 Often, strains. air, melody, tune, song, sound, music: In the distance I made out the faint strains of skirling bagpipes. 9 tenor, tone, drift, inclination, tendency, quality, spirit, mood, humour, character, complexion, cast, impression, thread, vein, theme: I detected a mellowing strain in her letters.
strained adj. laboured, forced, artificial, stiff, tense, awkward, uneasy, uncomfortable, difficult, tension-ridden, self-conscious, unnatural, insincere, put-on: His already strained relations with his wife scarcely improved when he met Lisa.
straitened adj. inadequate, insufficient, reduced, oppressed, distressed, needy, necessitous, poor, poverty-stricken, indigent, impoverished, destitute, penniless, insolvent, Colloq hard up, US strapped: As a writer, he was accustomed to living in straitened circumstances between sales of his stories.
strange adj. 1 odd, peculiar, bizarre, weird, curious, uncommon, unusual, rare, singular, exceptional, eccentric, weird, funny, quaint, fantastic, out of the ordinary, extraordinary, out-of-the-way, queer, outlandish, unheard-of, grotesque, abnormal, remarkable, surprising, inexplicable, unaccountable, uncanny, Colloq offbeat, far-out, Slang kinky, Brit rum, US kooky: I had a strange dream last night. 2 unfamiliar, unknown, unaccustomed: The children were warned not to get into strange cars. She was overwhelmed by the strange culture of her husband's country.
stratagem n. trick, artifice, device, dodge, subterfuge, lure, wile, ruse, plan, scheme, plot, intrigue, manoeuvre, ploy, tactic: What stratagem did they use to tempt you to attend this boring affair?
strategy n. plan, tactic(s), design, policy, procedure, scheme, blueprint, Colloq game or master plan, scenario: The enemy's strategy calls for quick air strikes by low-flying bombers. stratum n. 1 layer, level, stratification, table, vein, seam; plane: These coal strata have been mined for hundreds of years. 2 level, caste, class, rank, station, standing, status, bracket, group, estate: She married someone from a higher stratum of society.
streak n. 1 stripe, striation, strip, stroke, bar, band, line, mark, smear, slash, dash, touch, daub, fleck, trace; vein, layer, seam, stratum: The male bird is marked with a streak of bright reddish-orange on its throat. A red streak marks the iron deposit. 2 flash, bolt: I saw the dark figure in the light from a streak of lightning. 3 spell, spate, period, stretch, run: They were celebrating their streak of good luck at the roulette table. --v. 4 stripe, striate, line, bar, mark, smear, daub, slash: Dawn was beginning to streak the sky when she left the party. 5 race, run, rush, dash, sprint, dart, hurtle, fly, scoot, speed, hasten, hurry, tear, whistle, zip, zoom, Colloq whiz or whizz: The gang streaked through the village on their motor cycles and were gone.
streamer n. pennant, banner, pennon, flag, bannerette or banneret, banderole or banderol or bannerol, gonfalon or gonfanon, jack, burgee: A long streamer fluttered from the mast.
street n. 1 thoroughfare, way, road, roadway, high road, avenue, concourse, boulevard, lane, drive, terrace, circle, row, passage, alley, byway: I don't know the name of the street where she lives. 2 up (someone's) Brit street or US alley. (someone's) cup of tea, in (someone's) bailiwick, suiting (someone) to a T: Crossword puzzles are very much up Eugene's street.
strengthen v. 1 reinforce, renew, bolster, fortify, support, confirm, corroborate, substantiate, buttress, step up, boost: A thousand troops were sent to strengthen the garrison at Fort Old. 2 encourage, hearten, invigorate, fortify, rejuvenate, nourish, energize, vitalize, toughen, brace (up), steel, innervate, stiffen: Whatever she said seems to have strengthened his determination to succeed.
stress n. 1 emphasis, force, pressure, forcefulness, accent, accentuation, prominence, Technical ictus: Many people place the stress on the first syllable of 'controversy'. 2 emphasis, significance, importance, weight, force, insistence, urgency: She lays too much stress on looks. 3 (stress and) strain, burden, anxiety, worry, distress, pain, grief, suffering, anguish, pressure, tenseness, tension: She has four elderly people to care for, and the stress is beginning to show. --v. 4 emphasize, accent, accentuate, lay stress or emphasis on, underscore, underline, mark, note, make a point of, bring home, focus on, bring into prominence, spotlight, feature, highlight: The conference succeeded in stressing the importance of a good home life. 5 strain, put under strain or stress, upset, disturb, burden, worry, distress, Brit pressurize or US pressure: Duncan was terribly stressed after a few months in the new job.
strew v. scatter, bestrew, sprinkle, disperse, spread, toss, distribute; litter: Rubbish was strewn all over the floor.
strict adj. 1 rigorous, narrow, close, undeviating, confining, constricting, constrictive, rigid, defined, precise, exact, exacting, stringent, meticulous, compulsive, punctilious, finicky or finical, scrupulous, attentive, conscientious, faithful, thorough, complete: The judge's strict interpretation of the law left no room for leniency or sympathy. 2 severe, austere, authoritarian, autocratic, stern, firm, hard, tough, uncompromising, inflexible, cold-blooded, iron-fisted, tyrannical, harsh, ruthless, pitiless, unsympathetic: Miss Wells is remembered by all her students as a strict disciplinarian.
strident adj. shrill, raucous, harsh, loud, grating, stridulous, stridulant, scraping, scratching, scratchy, grinding, hoarse, rough, guttural, husky, gravelly, rasping, jarring, discordant, unharmonious, unmelodious, unmusical, cacophonous, croaking, creaking: Her strident voice could be heard all over the building.
strike v. 1 hit, deal a blow to, knock, smack, thump, thwack, crown, cuff, punch, smite; beat, hammer, belabour, batter, pummel or pommel, pelt, buffet, thrash; cudgel, bludgeon, club, whip, horsewhip, scourge, lash, cane, flog, birch, slap, Colloq wallop, slug, whack, clout, sock, conk, belt, bash, lambaste, bop: Small wonder he struck you after what you called his wife. 2 deliver, deal, aim, direct: He struck a blow for freedom. 3 hit, collide with, land on or in or against, smash or bump or bang or crash or dash into, go or run into, impact: Mrs Humphrey's car went out of control and struck a tree. 4 remove, take away, take apart, dismantle, knock down; take or pull or haul down: Stage-hands struck the set. As the wind piped up we struck the mainsail. 5 Usually, strike off or from or out. obliterate, expunge, erase, eradicate, blot out, delete, scratch, eliminate, rub out, cross (out), cancel, wipe out, US x out: After the scandal, his name was struck off the register. Strike out any references that might be thought libellous. 6 light, ignite: He struck a match to see where he was going. 7 affect, impress, influence, afflict, Colloq hit: The death of her kitten struck Mandy to the heart. 8 make, reach, attain, conclude; agree or settle (on), ratify, confirm: We struck a bargain on the sale of the car. 9 occur or come to, dawn on or upon, Colloq hit, register (with): It suddenly struck me that you are leaving tomorrow. 10 impress, print, stamp, punch, mint, make: They have struck a new gold coin for collectors. 11 instil, implant, induce: Horror films struck fear into our hearts when we were children. 12 assume, adopt, put on, display, affect, take on, feign: He struck a supercilious pose of insouciant hauteur that annoyed her intensely. 13 Often, strike down. afflict, affect, attack, indispose, incapacitate, disable, cripple, invalid: Polio struck her down in the prime of life. 14 encounter, come or happen or hit upon, come across, chance upon, discover, stumble on, find: The news is that they've struck oil in the North Sea. 15 revolt, rebel, mutiny, walk out (of or off the job): The machinists struck at midnight, bringing the industry to a halt. 16 strike on or upon. dream up, devise, conjure up, improvise, work out, invent, contrive, come up with, hit on or upon, arrive at: The alchemist never did strike upon a way to turn lead into gold. 17 strike out. a fail, get nowhere, Colloq US miss the boat, flop, come a cropper, Slang US blow it, blow the gaff, come to nothing or naught or nought: Tim always strikes out when it comes to girls. b See 5, above. 18 strike up. (cause to) begin or start or commence: The band struck up. We struck up an acquaintance aboard ship. --n. 19 attack, assault: A dawn air strike is planned. 20 walk-out, sit-down (strike), job action, slow-down, go-slow, work-to-rule: They will call a strike if negotiations break down.
string n. 1 line, cord, thread, twine, fibre, rope, cable, ligament, strand, filament: To fly a kite one needs the right weight of string. 2 leash, lead, leader: Why does he let her drag him around on the end of a string? 3 line, row, series, sequence, succession, chain, procession, stream, train, file, Chiefly Brit queue: A string of coincidences led to their meeting again after twenty years. 4 necklace, chain, loop, strand, dog-collar, choker, chaplet, wreath, rivire, Archaic carcanet: In her hair was a string of pearls. 5 pull strings or wires. use or exert influence, Colloq throw one's weight around: He had to pull strings to get his son a job on the paper. 6 pull the strings. be in control, control, run, operate, dominate, be in command, be in the driver's seat, hold the reins, manipulate: She is the one who pulls the strings when it comes to new investments. 7 strings. conditions, stipulations, provisos, qualifications, requirements, prerequisites, terms, obligations, limitations, provisions, musts, Colloq catches: I might have known that there would be strings attached to their offer of a free holiday in Corfu. --v. 8 thread, join: The children were busy stringing beads to make necklaces. 9 Often, string together or up. loop, festoon, link, drape, suspend, sling, hang, array, concatenate, chain together: At holiday time, coloured lights are strung round the town square. 10 string along. a follow, go along (with), agree, concur, collaborate: I said I would string along with the plan for the time being. b keep waiting or dangling, keep on a string, keep on tenterhooks, Colloq play fast and loose with (someone): She's just stringing you along till her boyfriend comes back. c fool, deceive, bluff, dupe, cheat, trick, hoax, Colloq take someone for a ride, put one or something over on (someone): They strung Harold along for months before they made off with his life savings. 11 string out. a stretch, reach, extend: The line of refugees strung out as far as one could see. b delay, postpone, drag out, protract, spin out: He strung out the repayment for as long as possible. 12 string up. hang, lynch: He knew that if the jury didn't convict him the townspeople would string him up.
strip n. band, ribbon, fillet, belt, swath or swathe, stripe: She wore a strip of embroidered silk tied round her head. They began farming the strip of land near the lake.
stripe n. 1 band, bar, striation, strip, streak, line, stroke, slash, length: Each railway car has a bright orange stripe along each side. 2 style, kind, sort, class, type, complexion, character, nature, description, persuasion, kidney, feather: These new students are of a completely different stripe.
stripling n. lad, boy, adolescent, juvenile, minor, schoolboy, youngster, teenager, youth, young fellow or man, fledgling, Dialect gossoon, young 'un, Archaic hobbledehoy: The police cadet was a callow youth, a mere stripling.
stroke n. 1 blow, rap, tap, thump, knock, smack, whack, swipe, slam, strike, Colloq wallop: One stroke of the hammer and the nail went in. 2 action, motion, go, move, movement, feat, achievement: She won the leading role and defeated her shyness at one stroke. 3 flourish, movement, gesture; mark, dash, Colloq splash: With a stroke of the pen the man's fate was sealed. 4 beat, throb, pulse, pulsation, thump: His heart was beating at exactly 72 strokes a minute. 5 attack, seizure, fit, apoplexy, apoplectic fit, spasm, paralytic attack or fit; Technical embolism, thrombosis, cerebrovascular accident, aneurysm: Gerry has been incapacitated since he had a stroke. 6 pat, touch, caress: A few strokes of her fingers on my brow and the headache was gone. 7 achievement, accomplishment, feat, act, action, work; example; touch: Your idea of having a jazz concert to raise money is a stroke of genius. 8 bit, jot or tittle, scrap, iota, touch, stitch, hint, suggestion: You haven't done a stroke of work all morning. 9 occurrence, happening, matter: It was just a stroke of luck that I came along when I did. --v. 10 caress, pet, pat, fondle; massage, rub, soothe: His heart beat faster when she stroked his hand lightly with her fingertips.
strong adj. 1 powerful, muscular, mighty, brawny, strapping, robust, sturdy, stalwart, burly, stout, sinewy, athletic, wiry, Colloq beefy, hefty, husky: He was so strong he carried both wounded men 500 yards to safety. 2 powerful, concentrated, intense, pungent, potent, sharp, piquant, acrid, heady, penetrating, aromatic, fragrant, hot, spicy: There was a strong odour of ammonia. The flavour is a little too strong for my taste. 3 smelly, odoriferous, noisome, stinking, foul, mephitic, miasmic, putrid, putrescent, rotten: There is a strong smell of rotting flesh. 4 concentrated, undiluted, potent, intensified: How can you drink such strong coffee and still sleep? 5 vigorous, active, dynamic, energetic, eager, unflagging, tireless, unfailing, diligent, indefatigable, staunch, true-blue, steadfast, dedicated, enthusiastic, ardent, fervent, fervid, vehement, rabid, zealous, resolute, determined, unwavering, unswerving, firm, uncompromising, regular, persistent, tenacious, sedulous, assiduous, hard-working: We could use other strong party supporters like Sandy. 6 competent, talented, skilled, qualified, knowledgeable, able, experienced, well-versed, trained, efficient, capable: We are looking for someone who is particularly strong in writing advertising copy. 7 influential, persuasive, convincing, compelling, trenchant, unmistakable or unmistakeable, telling, great, profound; effective, efficacious, effectual, powerful, formidable: His evidence had a strong effect on the jury. She was taking very strong medicine for her migraine. 8 well-supported, irrefutable, well-substantiated, cogent, forceful, substantial, convincing, conclusive: The police made out a very strong case against her for premeditated murder. 9 well-established, well-founded, redoubtable, substantial, powerful, formidable: The position inside the fortress was quite strong. 10 likely, definite, substantial, good, better than average, reasonable, sizeable: There is a strong possibility that she will be elected. Sales of cars were strong during the first quarter. 11 stable, sound, solvent, prosperous, flourishing, thriving, affluent: The economists think that the economy will remain strong. 12 solid, sturdy, substantial, tough, well-built, reinforced, heavy-duty, durable; hard-wearing: Is the cage strong enough to hold the beast? 13 drastic, extreme, Draconian, high-handed, severe, forceful, rigorous, harsh, stringent, aggressive, strenuous, stiff, tough, Colloq hard-nosed: We had to resort to strong measures. 14 numerous, large, considerable, great; numerically, in number, in strength: They arrived on the battlefield with a strong force of ten thousand men. Their army was ten thousand strong. 15 vivid, graphic, etched, engraved, imprinted, impressed; definite, clear-cut, clear, pronounced, distinct, striking, marked: The memory of her embrace was still strong in my mind. He bears a strong resemblance to his brother. 16 wilful, aggressive, combative, defensive, difficult, assertive, incisive, dogmatic, doctrinaire, opinionated, self-willed, hard-headed, strong-minded, recalcitrant, stubborn, obstinate, emphatic, Colloq pushy: One cannot deny that Caroline has a strong personality. 17 vigorous, forceful, powerful, heavy: Strong winds lashed the west coast last night. 18 rugged, craggy, rough, weather-beaten: She was attracted by Martin's strong, suntanned good looks. 19 dazzling, glaring, bright, garish, brilliant, vivid, bold, blinding: The strong sunlight made her her blink. Shocking pink is too strong a colour for a small room. 20 urgent, strongly-worded, emphatic, assertive: A proposal to repeal the tax was met by strong protests. 21 unvarying, the same, steady, stable, firm, balanced: The market has remained strong all day. 22 emotional, deep-felt, deep-rooted, basic, intense, fervent, passionate, deep, earnest: Doris has very strong feelings on the subject of feminism. --adv. 23 overbearingly, overenthusiastically, offensively, aggressively, antagonistically, truculently: He always comes on a bit strong when he's enthusiastic about something.
stronghold n. fortress, bulwark, bastion, fastness, fortification, citadel: The eastern district was one of the last strongholds of the Labour Party.
structure n. 1 form, shape, configuration, organization, arrangement, make-up, framework, order, design, formation, system, nature, character: The career structure of the company has served as a model for similar firms. 2 building, edifice, house, construction: Planning regulations allow only a certain kind of structure in the residential areas. --v. 3 construct, build, organize, design, form, shape, arrange, systematize: Their language seems to be structured in an unusual way.
strut v. swagger, parade, promenade, peacock, prance: She goes strutting about the office as if she were the boss.
stubborn adj. obstinate, unyielding, inflexible, intransigent, intractable, uncompromising, mulish, pigheaded, refractory, wayward, adamant, recalcitrant, bull-headed, persistent, tenacious, pertinacious, unrelenting, dogged, determined: He remains stubborn in his refusal to join the group.
studied adj. premeditated, deliberate, calculated, planned, intentional, wilful, well-thought-out, conscious, contrived, feigned, forced, laboured: He treated even the greatest crisis with a studied air of insouciance.
study v. 1 learn (about), read, con, memorize, burn the midnight oil, lucubrate, Colloq bone up (on), cram, Brit swot or swat, mug up: I want to study music. She has to study for an exam. 2 contemplate, consider, reflect on, think over or about, ruminate on, chew over, turn over, weigh, ponder, deliberate over or on or about, muse about or on, mull over, meditate on or about or over: I want to study the problem before deciding what to do. 3 look or go into or over, look at, scan, examine, analyse, inspect, investigate, scrutinize, survey, observe: The crime squad studied every square inch of the murder scene. Avoiding the issue as usual, Joyce silently studied her fingernails. --n. 4 analysis, review, examination, survey, inquiry or enquiry, investigation, scrutiny, research, exploration: Government funds are paying for a study of the ecosystem of the Norfolk Broads. 5 learning, lessons, bookwork, work, reading, contemplation, investigation, Colloq boning up, cramming, Brit swotting or swatting: The study of anthropology is what led him to his theory of linguistic universals. 6 library, reading or writing-room, sanctum (sanctorum), haunt, studio, retreat, den, workroom, office: Let's go into the study and talk business.
stuffy adj. 1 close, airless, unventilated, oppressive, stifling, suffocating, stale, musty, fusty, mouldy, mildewy, muggy, fetid or foetid, frowzy or frouzy or frowsy, Brit frowsty: It was stuffy in the ancient tomb. 2 pompous, pedantic, self-important, self-centred, stodgy, old-fogyish or old-fogeyish, old-fashioned, strait-laced, staid, conventional, prim (and proper), priggish, niminy-piminy, stilted, stiff, rigid, Colloq fuddy-duddy, uptight: What a bore to be trapped for an entire evening with those stuffy old codgers!
stumbling-block n. impediment, obstacle, bar, block, obstruction, hurdle, hindrance, barrier, difficulty, snag: It was often labour unions that proved the stumbling-blocks to technological progress.
stun n. 1 daze, numb, benumb, knock out: I was stunned by an unexpected blow to the solar plexus. 2 astonish, daze, paralyse, stagger, stupefy, overcome, overwhelm, astound, jar, shock, jolt, strike dumb, amaze, confound, bewilder, take (someone's) breath away, Colloq shake up, bowl over, discombobulate, flabbergast: The children were stunned to hear that their mother had been arrested.
stunt n. caper, act, deed, feat, tour de force, exploit, trick, US dido: The dangerous stunts are done by a stand-in for the star.
stunted adj. dwarfed, shrunken, undersized, small, tiny, diminutive, little, wee: We saw a bonsai - a stunted Japanese potted tree that was hundreds of years old.
stupidity n. 1 fatuity, obtuseness, dullness, denseness, lumpishness, doltishness, simplicity, simple-mindedness, imbecility, cretinism, feeble-mindedness, weak-mindedness, stolidity, dull-wittedness, dimness, dim-wittedness, halfwittedness, thick-wittedness, slow-wittedness, thimble-wittedness, witlessness, brainlessness, mindlessness, empty-headedness, feather-headedness, rattle-headedness, boneheadedness: In public affairs stupidity is more dangerous than knavery. 2 foolishness, folly, asininity, craziness, insanity, madness, absurdity, absurdness, inanity, idiocy, ridiculousness, risibility, ludicrousness, nonsense, senselessness, bootlessness, irresponsibility, irrationality, foolhardiness: The stupidity of such a venture is obvious when you consider the enormous risk and the minuscule return.
sturdy adj. 1 strong, solid, stout, rugged, tough, well-built, substantial; strapping, muscular, powerful, brawny, burly, robust, well-muscled, athletic, hardy, Colloq husky, hefty: This ladder should be sturdy enough to hold you. James got that sturdy build from exercise. 2 stalwart, staunch, steadfast, resolute, firm, vigorous, determined, uncompromising, unyielding, unwavering, unswerving, unfaltering, enduring, indomitable: One must admire her sturdy independence in the face of all that criticism.
stylish adj. chic, fashionable, smart, la mode, modish, in style or fashion or vogue, elegant; chichi; Colloq in, with it, swanky, Chiefly Brit trendy, Slang swell, neat, classy, snazzy, US spiffy: Nicole always looks so stylish.
styptic adj. astringent: The styptic effect of alum stops bleeding.
subconscious adj. 1 subliminal, unconscious, suppressed, hidden, latent, repressed, inner, innermost, underlying, deep-rooted, Colloq Freudian: Despite his belligerence, he has a subconscious desire to be loved. --n. 2 (collective) unconscious, inner self; heart: Her subconscious tells her that all confined areas are dangerous.
subdued adj. 1 quiet, mellow(ed), toned down, moderate(d), tempered, hushed, muted, low-key, unenthusiastic, repressed, restrained, peaceful, tranquil, placid, calm(ed), temperate, reserved: There was a little subdued criticism at first, but the bill was passed. 2 chastened, sober, sobered, solemn, saddened, dejected, sad, down in the mouth, crestfallen, downcast, grave, serious: He looked subdued when he emerged from the headmaster's office.
subjection n. subordination, domination, conquest, subjugation, enslavement, enthralment, humbling, humiliation: Their goal was the subjection of all peoples in the Mediterranean area.
subjugate v. dominate, enslave, enthral, crush, humble, subject, oppress, suppress, put down, tyrannize, subdue, reduce, quell, overcome, overpower, make subservient or submissive, humble, humiliate: Few peoples have been subjugated so ignominiously as the American Indians.
sublime adj. 1 lofty, high, supreme, exalted, elevated, empyrean or empyreal, heavenly, noble, glorious, grand, high-minded; honourable, ennobled, eminent, glorified, beatified, canonized, sanctified, great, good: Her poetry evokes sublime emotions. 2 awesome, overwhelming, inspiring, mind-boggling, overpowering, humbling, awe-inspiring, majestic, splendid, empyrean: The architecture of the cathedral was truly sublime.
submerge v. 1 plunge, submerse, immerse, inundate, dip, wash, soak, drench, saturate, wet, douse, Colloq dunk: To cleanse, submerge the garment in a basin of warm water for ten minutes. 2 dive, plunge, go down, descend, sink, sound, plummet: The order to submerge was given as soon as the planes were spotted. 3 flood, immerse, inundate, swamp, bury, engulf, overwhelm, deluge, drown; conceal, hide, camouflage, obscure, cloak, veil, shroud: He was quickly submerged under an enormous pile of correspondence.
submissive adj. 1 yielding, acquiescent, deferential, compliant, obedient, tractable, amenable, agreeable, accommodating, passive, unresisting, pliant, flexible, manageable, unassertive, docile, meek, timid, resigned, uncomplaining: As a child she was very submissive but she rebelled in adolescence. 2 obsequious, abject, subservient, servile, humble, deferential, slavish, ingratiating, truckling, biddable, sycophantic, toadying, Colloq boot-licking, Taboo slang brown-nosing, Brit arse-kissing, arse-licking, US ass-kissing, ass-licking: She keeps a few submissive lackeys about to do her bidding.
subordinate adj. 1 Often, subordinate to. minor; inferior (to), lower (than), lesser (than), secondary (to), second (to), junior (to), subsidiary (to); next to, below, beneath, under: He had to accept a subordinate position in the new company. His new job is subordinate to that of purchasing director. --n. 2 assistant, aide, junior, subaltern, staff member; underling, hireling, inferior, lackey, servant, slave, vassal; Colloq US staffer: She is a subordinate to the editor-in-chief. --v. 3 make (something) secondary: Too many subordinate community interest to personal greed.
subscription n. 1 payment, remittance, investment; commitment, dues, fee, price, cost: The subscription is now 100 a year. 2 obligation, pledge, promise, underwriting: If we get enough subscriptions, we shall be able to print the book.
subsequently adv. later (on), afterwards or US also afterward: Subsequently, the law was changed to protect witnesses.
subsidiary adj. Often, subsidiary to. ancillary (to), secondary (to), auxiliary (to), lesser (than), additional (to), supplementary or supplemental (to), complementary (to), accessory (to), subordinate (to), adjuvant (to): The company offers removal of hazardous waste as a subsidiary service.
subsidy n. funding, financing, subsidizing, sponsoring, sponsorship, assistance, aid, contribution, support, grant, subvention, maintenance, underwriting, capitalization: Farmers are hoping for increased subsidies.
substance n. 1 material, matter, stuff; fabric, composition, make-up: She couldn't recognize the substance in the bottle. The comet's substance is mainly ice and dirt. 2 essence, pith, heart, core, gist, burden, theme, meat, kernel, nub, crux, sum total, sum and substance, point, gravamen, haecceity, quintessence, quiddity: Explain, in 500 or fewer words, the substance of Hegel's dispute with Kant. 3 meaning, import, significance, purport, signification, point: Our visit to San Francisco gave substance to all we had read about it. 4 reality, corporeality, solidity, actuality, concreteness: You must learn to deal with the substance, not the shadows. 5 means, wealth, property, possessions, riches, resources, affluence, assets: John Culver was a citizen of some substance in this town.
substantially adv. in substance, essentially, at bottom, fundamentally, basically, in essence, intrinsically, in reality, at heart, sincerely, truly, actually, in truth, veritably, indeed, in fact, as a matter of fact; largely, to a large extent, in large measure, materially, practically, in the main, for the most part, mostly, virtually, to all intents and purposes; Archaic verily: The article was substantially sound. Do you agree substantially with the ruling of the court?
substitute v. 1 Sometimes, substitute for. replace, exchange, displace, relieve, supplant; switch; take the place of, stand in for, double for, Colloq sub for, cover for, swap or swop, US and Canadian pinch-hit for: She substituted the real diamond with a paste replica. I will substitute for you while you are away. --n. 2 substitution, replacement, alternative, relief, representative, deputy, delegate, stand-in, stand-by, understudy, surrogate, succedaneum, Brit locum (tenens), US and Canadian alternate: In those days a man could hire a substitute to serve in his place in the militia.
substratum n. substrate, foundation, underlayer, basis, fundament, base, substructure, groundwork: The agreement rests on a substratum of mutual trust and respect.
subtle adj. 1 delicate, fine, refined, exquisite, nice, Archaic subtile: I became aware, almost subconsciously, of the subtle odour of jasmine. These subtle shades of green are so peaceful. 2 abstruse, arcane, recondite, remote, deep, profound, concealed, hidden, shadowy, nebulous, vague, obscure, veiled, thin, airy, insubstantial, elusive, faint; sophistic(al): The symbolism is so subtle as to be meaningful to the poet alone. A subtle hint gave me to understand that I ought to go. 3 tricky, shrewd, cunning, wily, sly, devious, crafty, smart, clever, foxy, artful, scheming, designing, underhand(ed), deceptive, Jesuitical, Machiavellian, ingenious, skilful, strategic, insidious, casuistic, shifty, slick, slimy, Chiefly Brit smarmy: You were a fool to allow that subtle serpent to insinuate himself into your confidence.
subtract v. 1 deduct, take away, take off, take (something) from: First calculate the discount, then subtract it from the price. 2 Sometimes, subtract from. detract (from), diminish, take away (from): Nothing could subtract from the exhilaration of that moment.
subversive adj. 1 subversionary, seditious, seditionary, treasonous, treacherous, traitorous, revolutionary, insurrectionary: The government regarded as subversive anything and anyone disagreeing with their policies. --n. 2 traitor, insurgent, saboteur, fifth-columnist, collaborator, collaborationist, quisling, radical, revolutionary, insurrectionist, insurrectionary; dissident, defector: The security agencies were removing subversives from sensitive jobs.
subway n. 1 Brit underground (railway), tube: She takes the subway to work. 2 US tunnel, underpass: Use the subway to cross the road in safety.
success n. 1 good or happy result or outcome, good fortune, achievement, triumph, attainment, ascendancy, prosperity: The success of the fast food business is evident everywhere. 2 star, celebrity, (big) name, sensation: She was a great success as a singer, dancer, and actress.
succession n. 1 passing (on), handing down or on, transmittal, transmission, transfer, transferral, shift, conveyance, conveyancing: According to her will, the succession of the property is via her first-born. 2 sequence, progression, order, series, turn, course, flow, chain, train, procession: The succession of events was as he described. 3 accession, assumption, attainment, elevation, promotion; inheritance: What was the year of Charles II's succession to the Spanish throne? 4 lineage, descent, birthright, dynasty, ancestry, descendants, bloodline: The 18th century began with the War of the Spanish Succession. 5 in succession. one after or behind the other, at intervals, successively, consecutively, in a row, running, without interruption, uninterruptedly, in order, in line: They published several historical novels in quick succession.
succinct adj. compact, brief, concise, pithy, terse, short, compressed, condensed, epigrammatic: He prefers a succinct style of writing, one that gets to the point.
succumb v. yield, give up, give way, surrender, accede, submit, capitulate: I finally succumbed and agreed to their request for help.
sudden adj. unexpected, unannounced, unanticipated, unforeseen; unwonted, surprising, startling; precipitate, abrupt, quick, immediate, rapid, swift, brisk; impetuous, hasty, rash, impulsive: His sudden turn caught us off balance. Your change of heart was quite sudden.
sue v. 1 proceed or move or act (against), take (legal) action or bring suit or prefer charges (against); summon(s), charge, accuse: He threatened to sue. They are suing him for the injuries they sustained. 2 petition, beg, plead, entreat, pray, request, solicit, apply, beseech, implore, supplicate: After five years of constant warfare, the country is suing for peace.
suffering n. pain, agony, distress, misery, affliction, hardship, torment, torture, tribulation, trial: The man's suffering is written in his face.
sufficient adj. adequate, enough: Have we sufficient food to last through the winter?
suffrage n. (right to) vote, voting right(s), franchise, voice, say, ballot, option, choice: They campaigned for universal adult suffrage.
suggest v. 1 propose, advance, recommend, urge, advocate, support, offer, proffer, put or set forward, present, mention, introduce: He suggested going out to a pub for dinner. Can you suggest an alternative? 2 call to mind, bring up, hint (at), imply, insinuate, intimate, make one think, lead one to believe, indicate: His silence suggested that this was not the right time to pursue the matter.
suggestion n. 1 proposal, proposition, recommendation, plan, advice, counsel, idea, notion, opinion; prompting, urging: The committee rejected your suggestion that membership fees should be increased. 2 indication, trace, whisper, insinuation, innuendo, implication, intimation, hint, soupon, touch, tinge, suspicion, breath, iota, jot or tittle: There wasn't the slightest suggestion of animosity in her criticism.
suit v. 1 adapt, accommodate, fit, adjust, tailor, make appropriate or suitable: It will require some reorganization to suit the office space to our needs. 2 please, satisfy, fill (someone's) needs, gratify, be acceptable or suitable or convenient to or for, befit; conform to: Choose whichever room suits you. The schedule does not suit my personal plans at all. --n. 3 jacket and trousers or skirt, outfit, uniform, ensemble, costume, habit; garb, clothing, clothes, livery: He showed up wearing a new silk suit. 4 lawsuit, action, case, proceeding, process, cause, trial; litigation: I do not want to enter into a suit over the damage to my car. 5 petition, plea, request, entreaty, prayer, solicitation, application, appeal, supplication; courtship: The king rejected all suits for his daughter's hand in marriage.
suitcase n. bag, valise, overnight bag, holdall, grip or Brit handgrip, Brit formerly portmanteau: She packed enough for a week's holiday into one small suitcase.
suitor n. admirer, beau, wooer; boyfriend, paramour, lover, inamorato, cicisbeo, escort, Archaic swain: Madelaine has more suitors than I can count.
sullen adj. sulky, sulking, morose, brooding, pouting, gloomy, moody, temperamental, dour, lugubrious, funereal, dismal, dreary, grim, depressing, depressed, churlish, ill-humoured, glum, grumpy, sombre, out of humour, antisocial, unsociable, cross, petulant, perverse, crusty, crotchety, choleric, crabby, ill-natured, ill-tempered, bad-tempered, splenetic, peevish, dyspeptic, out of sorts, US cranky: He remained quite sullen and refused to associate with anyone.
sultry adj. 1 hot, humid, sticky, stuffy, stifling, oppressive, close, muggy, steamy, steaming, moist, damp, sweltering, suffocating: I was happy to be languishing again in the sultry warmth of St Lucia. 2 lusty, lustful, passionate, erotic, seductive, voluptuous, provocative, sensual, Colloq sexy, hot: She continued her sultry, slow, sinuous dance.
summarily adv. 1 immediately, at once, straightaway, directly, quickly, without delay, unhesitatingly, without hesitation, forthwith, promptly, swiftly, speedily, expeditiously, instantly, Colloq pdq (= 'pretty damned quick'): Any dog caught without a muzzle will be impounded summarily. 2 suddenly, without warning, abruptly, peremptorily, precipitately: He was summarily dismissed, with no advance notice.
summit n. peak, top, apex, acme, pinnacle, zenith, crown; culmination, climax: The winds at the summit of Annapurna reached hurricane force. There was no doubt that I had reached the summit of my achievements.
sumptuous adj. expensive, costly, extravagant, exorbitant, dear, rich; lavish, luxurious, de luxe, opulent, palatial, royal, majestic, regal, magnificent, dazzling, splendid, showy, Colloq posh, plush, ritzy: The family treated us to a sumptuous repast to celebrate our 50th wedding anniversary.
sundries n.pl. knick-knacks, trinkets, small items, notions, miscellanea, miscellany, kickshaws, Brummagem, frippery, bric--brac, odds and ends: We might find a button for your shirt in a shop that sells sundries.
sunken adj. 1 hollow, hollowed-out, haggard, drawn: From her sunken cheeks the child looked as if she hadn't eaten for weeks. 2 submerged, undersea, underwater, submersed: The boat hit a sunken wreck and foundered. 3 buried, underground, in-ground, below-ground, settled, lowered: The old term for a sunken fence is 'ha-ha'.
sunny adj. 1 sunlit, sunshiny, brilliant, bright, radiant, fair, fine, cloudless, clear, unclouded: The enchanting scenery and warm sunny climate makes it a perfect place for holidays. 2 cheerful, cheery, happy, joyous, joyful, light-hearted, smiling, beaming, buoyant, blithe, gay, mirthful, jolly, bubbly, ebullient, genial, warm, friendly, outgoing: Being with someone who has a sunny disposition was a pleasant change.
superb adj. wonderful, marvellous, excellent, superior, gorgeous, glorious, magnificent, outstanding, exquisite, fine, splendid, unequalled, sensational, noteworthy, admirable, peerless, matchless, unrivalled, first-rate, superlative, perfect, classic, exceptional, extraordinary, striking, brilliant, dazzling, miraculous, incredible, unbelievable, fantastic, fabulous, stupendous, staggering, mind-boggling, breathtaking, Woman's dialect divine, Colloq great, super, smashing, magic, terrific, fantabulous, unreal, out of this world, mind-blowing, super, Slang out of sight, far-out, boss, solid, cool, hot, bad: The curator said he had never seen such a superb collection. She does a superb Hedda Gabler. We were treated to a superb dinner.
superficial adj. 1 surface, external, exterior, shallow, skin-deep, slight, outside: I suffered a superficial wound to the forehead. 2 surface, slight, external, apparent, skin-deep, outward, cursory, insignificant, passing, unimportant, trivial, empty, insubstantial; paying lip-service, for appearances' sake, cosmetic: She bears a superficial resemblance to your sister. His interest in your welfare is entirely superficial. 3 cursory, slapdash, quick, hurried, hasty, perfunctory, nominal, meaningless, passing: The machinery is subjected to a superficial inspection before shipping.
superfluity n. excess, superabundance, over-abundance, surplus, oversupply, surfeit, glut, superfluousness, profusion, plethora, oversupply, supersaturation: The middle and upper classes wallow in a superfluity of goods.
superhuman adj. 1 heroic, Herculean, godlike, legendary, valiant, courageous, brave, daring, dangerous, death-defying, extraordinary, miraculous, phenomenal, incredible, fabulous, fantastic, unbelievable, amazing: His superhuman feats would never be duplicated. --n. 2 superman, hero, superhero, bermensch, Hercules: They still believe that one day a superhuman will come along to lead them.
superior adj. 1 higher, higher-ranking, higher-level, higher-class, higher-calibre, upper, upper-level, upper-class, loftier, nobler, better; of a higher order or status or standing, Colloq classier, tonier: He was reported to his superior officer. 2 high-class, elevated, first-rate, distinguished, exceptional, excellent, preferred, choice, select, litist, outstanding, superlative, matchless, unequalled, peerless, nonpareil, sterling, supreme, fine, noteworthy, notable, worthy, estimable: Kenneth has had the benefit of a superior education. 3 See supercilious, above. --n. 4 See supervisor, below.
superlative adj. unsurpassed, paramount, supreme, consummate, superior, best, choicest, finest, matchless, peerless, unequalled, unrivalled, singular, unique, incomparable, excellent, superb, sterling, dazzling, first-rate, exceptional, extraordinary, marvellous, spectacular, capital, Colloq tiptop, super, smashing, great, ace, terrific, fantastic, Slang crack: Max turned in a superlative performance in the tournament.
supersede v. replace, succeed, displace, supplant, oust, take the place of, substitute for: The 286 computers have been superseded by 386 models.
supervisor n. overseer, foreman, manager, controller, superintendent, superior, governor, director, boss, chief, head, administrator: As supervisor, you are responsible for the work done in your department.
supine adj. 1 flat (on one's back), lying (down), prostrate, recumbent, Formal or technical procumbent, accumbent, decumbent: When I found him, he was supine, staring up at the stars. 2 indolent, lazy, lethargic, idle, listless, indifferent, apathetic, unconcerned, uninterested, torpid, languid, languorous, sluggish, slothful, phlegmatic, lymphatic, lackadaisical, inert, inactive, passive, motionless, inanimate, spiritless, abject: During the entire crisis, the town council was completely supine and uncaring.
supple adj. 1 flexible, flexile, pliant, bendable, elastic, resilient, pliable, tractile, fictile: He made a rug-beater out of some supple lengths of bamboo. 2 willowy, lithe, limber, nimble, pliant, lissom or lissome, graceful, athletic: She has the supple body of a dancer. 3 tractable, compliant, yielding, accommodating, obliging, complaisant, acquiescent, submissive, unresistant, unresisting, servile, obsequious, ingratiating, fawning, toadying: With supple words the miserable sycophant wormed his way into father's confidence.
supplementary adj. 1 additional, added, annexed, adjunct, new: The supplementary buildings increased the size of the hospital greatly. 2 supplemental, supportive, contributory, ancillary, secondary, subordinate, annexed, additional, attached, added, appended, subsidiary, adscititious; extraneous, adventitious, supervenient, extra, excess; Technical suppletive: The supplementary material expanded the original work five-fold.
supplication n. 1 entreaty, petition, prayer, appeal, pleading, plea, suit, solicitation, obsecration, obtestation, impetration: Heeding the pitiful supplications of the beggars, they gave them some money. 2 supplicating, begging, pleading, soliciting, petitioning, entreating, beseeching: All his supplication could not wring a farthing from the old skinflint.
support v. 1 back (up), stand by, help, bolster, uphold, brace, strengthen, fortify, buttress, prop (up), shore up, reinforce, boost, champion, assist, take up the cudgels for, aid, promote, forward, second, advance, advocate, stand up for, be supportive (of or in), Colloq stick up for: Peterson agreed to support him in his bid for the presidency. 2 brace, hold up, carry, prop (up); strengthen, shore up, reinforce, fortify, buttress: You need a column to support this beam. 3 tolerate, bear, stand (for), suffer, submit to, undergo, brook, stomach, endure, abide, countenance, face, Brit stick, Colloq put up with: He cannot support the notion that she might be guilty. 4 pay for, fund, maintain, keep, finance, subsidize, underwrite, sponsor, Colloq US bankroll: I can no longer support myself or my family. 5 sustain, withstand, stand, take, bear, tolerate, hold up under, weather: His legs were too weak to support his own weight. 6 verify, corroborate, authenticate, vouch for, endorse, confirm, affirm, bear out, attest to, certify, substantiate, validate, ratify: Can anyone support his alibi? --n. 7 help, backing, backup, reinforcement, bolstering, encouragement, reinforcing, fortifying, assistance, aid, succour, sustenance: Thank you for your support over the years. 8 brace, prop, stay, frame, foundation, underpinning, substructure, truss, beam, column, pillar, strut, guy, guy wire, mainstay, buttress, bolster, reinforcement, supporter: The supports failed under the grandstand and it fell, injuring a few. Alan was a tremendous support during my illness. 9 sustenance, (living) expenses, keep, maintenance, subsistence, upkeep; finances, funding: Mona is suing David for the support of their child. He lives mainly on government support. supportable adj. 1 tolerable, bearable, endurable, acceptable, sufferable: Thoughts of death are more supportable when it seems remote. 2 defensible, confirmable, verifiable, demonstrable, tenable, believable: The argument that we should keep the old tax structure is simply not supportable.
supportive adj. helpful, sustaining, supporting, encouraging, sympathetic, understanding, reassuring: Among our many friends, Cleo was the most supportive during the recent trouble.
supposed adj. 1 alleged, assumed, putative, reputed, presumed, hypothetical, theoretical, theorized, imagined, suppositious, supposititious: Her supposed drug addiction turned out to be a myth. 2 obliged, expected, required; meant, intended: You were supposed to return my key. What is that supposed to mean?
supposing conj. if, even if, in the event that, despite the fact that, although, though: Supposing he says no, what will you do?
suppress v. 1 end, discontinue, cut off, cease, stop, terminate, put an end to, halt, prohibit, preclude, prevent, repress, censor, forbid, interdict, block, obstruct, withhold, stifle, inhibit, hinder, arrest: They have been unable to suppress the publication of the book. 2 put down, quell, crush, squelch, quash, subdue, check, stamp out, snuff out, smother, extinguish, quench, crack down on: The uprising was suppressed with the shooting of the students. 3 keep down, control, keep under control, keep or hold in check, restrain, hold in or back, repress, cover up, conceal, hide, keep quiet or secret, mute, muffle, quiet, silence: Objections to the guest speaker were suppressed at the request of the university's chancellor.
supremacist n. supremist, bigot, racist, racialist, dogmatist, zealot, fanatic: Supremacists' philosophies are based on hatred, not love.
supreme adj. 1 highest, loftiest, topmost, greatest, first, foremost, principal, unsurpassed, top, uppermost, chief, paramount, sovereign: There is no appeal to a decision of the supreme tribunal. 2 greatest, maximum, extreme, uttermost, utmost, ultimate: I fear that your son has made the supreme sacrifice, Mrs Atkins. 3 best, greatest, first, outstanding, pre-eminent, first-rate, prime, primary, unexcelled, leading, crowning, consummate: Many regard her as the supreme artist of her day. 4 superb, marvellous, excellent, outstanding, superlative, matchless, peerless, incomparable, unparalleled, masterful, masterly, sublime, brilliant, transcendent, inimitable, choice: There is no doubt that she is a supreme artist.
sure adj. 1 certain, assured, convinced, persuaded, positive, definite, unwavering, unswerving, unflinching, steadfast, steady, unshakeable or unshakable, confident, satisfied, undeviating, unfaltering: How can you be so sure in your opinion that Jack did it? I'm sure I've met you before. 2 established, firm, solid, trusty, stable, steadfast, secure, safe, trustworthy, reliable: I never travel without my sure companions, courage and caution. 3 accurate, reliable, dependable, tried and true, unfailing, infallible, foolproof, effective, Colloq sure-fire: A high temperature is a sure sign of illness. 4 certain, inevitable, indubitable, unavoidable, ineluctable, inescapable, guaranteed: He who enters the Devil's Cave meets sure death.
surface n. 1 exterior, covering, outside, top, skin, integument, faade, face, boundary, interface, superficies; side, plane: Most of the earth's surface is covered by water. How many surfaces on an icosahedron? 2 on the surface. superficially, to all appearances, at first glance, outwardly, to the casual observer, extrinsically, ostensibly: It looks pretty enough on the surface, but it is rotten underneath. --v. 3 appear, show up, emerge, materialize, arise, rise, come up, Colloq pop up, crop up: Guess who surfaced after ten years in Tierra del Fuego! An enormous turtle surfaced near our boat. 4 pave, concrete, tarmac: They are surfacing the road in front of my house.
surfeited adj. gorged, overfed, satiated, sated, stuffed, glutted, jaded: He passed the sleeping surfeited diners and stole into the library unseen.
surly adj. unpleasant, rude, crusty, cantankerous, curmudgeonly, churlish, crabby, crabbed, choleric, splenetic, dyspeptic, bilious, temperamental, cross, crotchety, grouchy, grumpy, bearish, testy, touchy, short-tempered, ill-tempered, bad-tempered, ill-natured, bad-natured, ill-humoured, peevish, quarrelsome, argumentative, obnoxious, uncivil, rough, obstreperous: I see no reason to shop where the sales staff are surly.
surpass v. exceed, excel, go or pass beyond, outdo, beat, worst, better, best, outstrip, outdistance, outperform, outclass, outshine, eclipse, overshadow, top, cap, transcend, prevail over, leave behind: He easily surpassed the statesmen of his time.
surpassingly adv. exceedingly, extraordinarily, incomparably, Literary surpassing: The girls on the beach were surpassingly beautiful.
surprise v. 1 shock, astound, astonish, amaze, disconcert, nonplus, dumbfound or dumfound, stagger, take aback, strike, hit, Colloq floor, bowl over, flabbergast, rock or set (someone) back on his or her or chiefly Brit their heels, Brit knock (someone) for six, US knock (someone) for a loop: What surprised me was her coolness in the face of danger. 2 take or catch unawares, catch red-handed or in the act or in flagrante delicto, catch napping or off guard, discover: When Samuel Johnson's wife found him with a maid, she said, 'Dr Johnson! I am surprised!', to which he replied, 'No, madam: you are amazed. I am surprised.' --n. 3 shock, astonishment, amazement, stupefaction, wonder, incredulity: Imagine my surprise to learn that I was being arrested. 4 blow, jolt, shocker, bolt from or US also out of the blue, bombshell, eye-opener: It came as a surprise to me that my sister was pregnant.
surreptitious adj. furtive, secret, clandestine, stealthy, underhand(ed), covert, (on the) sly, secretive, private, concealed, hidden, veiled, Colloq sneaky: She stole surreptitious glances at him.
surrounding adj. nearby, neighbouring, local, adjoining, neighbourhood, adjacent, bordering, abutting, circumambient, circumjacent: The surrounding countryside was bursting into bloom.
survey v. 1 examine, appraise, evaluate, take the measure of, inspect, study, scan, scrutinize, measure, size up, assess, investigate, look into or over, review: He surveyed the situation and found nothing wrong. 2 view, look at, get a bird's eye view of, contemplate: From the top of the tower I surveyed the surrounding countryside. --n. 3 surveying, examination, appraisal, evaluation, measure, study, scan, scanning, scrutiny, inquiry or enquiry, measurement, investigation, inspection: Our survey of the company finances yielded some very interesting information.
susceptible adj. 1 Often, susceptible of or to. open (to), prone (to), subject (to), disposed (to), predisposed (to), receptive (to), affected by, responsive (to): Brass is susceptible of a high shine. Are you still susceptible to her blandishments? 2 impressionable, influenceable, vulnerable, reachable, accessible, credulous, suggestible, gullible, nave: Susceptible youngsters need protection from commercial exploitation.
suspend v. 1 hold up or off (on), withhold, put off, put or hold or keep in or into abeyance, shelve, postpone, delay, defer, interrupt, stop or check or cease or discontinue temporarily, US table: We suspended payment pending inspection of the work already done. Train services on this route will be suspended till further notice. Suspend your disbelief for a moment to consider the possible motive for stealing a prune. 2 hang, attach, fasten, dangle, swing: She suspended the cameo from a gold chain which she wore as a necklace. 3 debar, exclude, eliminate, reject, expel, eject, evict; deprive of the rights of, deny the privileges of; blackball: A member may be suspended if his dues are six months or more in arrears.
suspension n. 1 debarring, disbarment, exclusion, elimination, rejection, expulsion, ejection, eviction, deprivation, denial: The suspension of privileges cannot last for more than a fortnight. 2 intermission, moratorium, deferment, hold-up, delay, delaying, interruption, postponement, postponing, discontinuing, discontinuation, stay: Luckily, the suspension of hostilities lasted till the summer.
suspicious adj. 1 doubtful, in doubt, dubious, questionable, debatable, suspect(ed), under suspicion, open to doubt or question or misconstruction, Colloq shady, fishy: There is something very suspicious about his behaviour. 2 mistrustful, distrustful, doubtful, in doubt, sceptical, suspecting, disbelieving, unbelieving, leery, apprehensive, wary, uncertain, uneasy: I was suspicious of Douglas from the very beginning.
sustained adj. continued, continuous, continual, prolonged, unremitting, steady, ceaseless, unceasing, incessant, interminable; uniform, even, level, unchanged, unchanging: The neighbours keep up that sustained caterwauling every night. The audience was thrilled by her sustained top C.
swagger v. 1 strut, prance, parade, Archaic swash, Colloq US sashay, cut a swath: Look at that Charlie swaggering down the street in his new suit! 2 boast, brag, show off, vaunt, crow, Colloq Brit swank: He is always swaggering on about his war experiences. --n. 3 strut, prance, strutting, swaggering, show, display, showing off, ostentation, braggadocio, arrogance, boastfulness: Paul's outrageous swagger developed only after he was promoted.
swamp n. 1 bog, fen, marsh, quagmire, morass, moor, Chiefly literary slough, Scots and No. Eng. dialect moss, So. US everglade: The draining of swamps destroys the breeding places of mosquitoes. --v. 2 overwhelm, overcome, flood, inundate, submerge, immerse, deluge, overload, overtax, overburden, Colloq snow under: I'm so swamped with work I'm sleeping at the office. 3 scuttle, sink, founder: A huge wave swamped the boat and she sank quickly.
swarm n. 1 throng, horde, army, host, multitude, hive, herd, mob, mass, drove, flood, stream, cloud, flock, pack, shoal, bunch: Swarms of people showed up for our garden party. --v. 2 throng, mass, crowd, congregate, flock, gather, flood, stream, flow: The fans swarmed round the rock group. 3 swarm with. Often, be swarming with. crawl with, abound in or with, throng with, teem with, burst with, bristle with, be overrun with: In two minutes the place was swarming with police.
swashbuckling adj. adventurous, daring, daredevil, swaggering, roisterous, bold, dashing, flamboyant: Those old swashbuckling films with Errol Flynn, Richard Green, and Douglas Fairbanks, formed a genre all their own.
swathe v. tie, bind, bandage, wrap, enwrap, swaddle, bundle (up), envelop, shroud, muffle (up): I can't tell who he is as his head is swathed in bandages.
swear v. 1 depose, aver, asseverate, declare, insist, assert, solemnly affirm or state, testify, promise, take an oath, undertake, vow, avow, vouchsafe, warrant, pledge, give one's word, agree: He swore he had not done any such thing. 2 curse, blaspheme, imprecate, use profanity, utter profanities, execrate, Colloq cuss: Priscilla stopped her ears at the men's swearing. 3 swear by. trust (in), believe in, rely on, have confidence in, count on: The colonel swears by the same old fountain-pen he has used for years and will use no other. 4 swear off. forswear, renounce, abjure, go off, forgo, shun, avoid, give up, eschew, forsake, throw over: Brian tells me he's sworn off alcohol for a while.
sweep v. 1 brush, whisk, clean, clear, tidy up: This weekend I have to sweep out the basement. 2 Often, sweep away. carry or take (away or off), destroy, wipe out, demolish, remove, wash (away); blow (away): The raging torrent swept away the bridge. The wind swept the debris before it. 3 swoop, flounce, glide, sail, march, parade, skim, tear, dash, zoom: Hattie swept into the room majestically. 4 curve, arc, arch, bend, bow, circle, turn: The long drive to the house sweeps round the pond and gardens. --n. 5 pass, clearance, stroke; purge: In one clean sweep the police rounded up all the suspects. 6 curve, arc, arch, bow, bend, curvature, flexure: Note the sweep of those main arches holding up the dome. 7 range, extent, compass, reach, stretch, scope, swing, span: The Hubbell space telescope has a farther sweep than any on earth.
sweet adj. 1 sugary, honey-like, honeyed, sweetened: Sweet breakfast cereals are bad for your teeth. 2 fragrant, perfumed, scented, aromatic, ambrosial, sweet-smelling, sweet-scented, balmy, redolent: The night air was sweet with jasmine. 3 harmonious, melodious, sweet-sounding, euphonious, dulcet, musical, tuneful, euphonic, mellifluous, mellow, lyric, silvery, bell-like, golden: I could hear McCormick's sweet voice singing 'Danny Boy'. 4 gentle, amiable, agreeable, genial, warm, friendly, kind, nice, unassuming, easygoing; attractive, appealing, charming, winning, pleasant, pleasing, lovely; cute, pretty: Jane normally has such a sweet disposition. Old Mrs Hughes was always sweet to me when I was little. Amy looks so sweet in her new dress. What a sweet little kitten! 5 dear, beloved, precious, prized, treasured, wonderful, marvellous, splendid, Colloq great: How sweet life can be! 6 considerate, attentive, solicitous, thoughtful, sympathetic, compassionate, kind, kind-hearted, generous, gracious, accommodating: How sweet it was of you to bring flowers! 7 cloying, sentimental, syrupy, saccharine, treacly, precious, honeyed, sickening, Colloq gushing, gushy, sloppy, soppy, maudlin, sticky, Brit twee, Colloq icky: Claire is so sweet that she really overdoes it sometimes. 8 sweet on. fond of, taken with, keen on, devoted to, enamoured of, infatuated with, (head over heels) in love with, Colloq wild or mad or crazy about, nuts about or over, Slang gone on, stuck on, batty about: We were teasing Rick about being sweet on Anne. --n. 9 Often, sweets. bon-bon, chocolate, confection, sweetmeat, Old-fashioned comfit, US candy: Harry always brings a box of sweets for my mother when he comes to see me. 10 dessert, Brit pudding, afters: For a sweet we can offer you a choice between chocolate gateau and gooseberry pie.
sweetheart n. girlfriend, boyfriend, friend, admirer, beau, darling, dear, love, beloved, lover, paramour, inamorato, inamorata, lady-love, betrothed, intended, fianc(e), Archaic swain Colloq heartthrob, flame, sweetie, steady: She married her childhood sweetheart and lived happily ever after.
swelling n. enlargement, distension, tumescence, protuberance, bump, prominence, bulge, lump, excrescence, protrusion, tumour, node, nodule: It is a good idea to have any unexplained swelling examined by the doctor.
swerve v. veer, career, swing, diverge, deviate, sheer off, skew, stray, turn (aside): The car swerved wildly off the road and into a ditch.
swiftly adv. fast, quickly, speedily, rapidly, expeditiously; briskly, hurriedly, hastily, suddenly, abruptly, in a flash, in a trice, in the wink of an eye, before you can say 'Jack Robinson', before you can say 'knife', like a shot, in an instant, in (less than) no time, precipitately, unexpectedly, Colloq like greased lightning, US lickety-split, in a jiffy, Slang pronto, like a bat out of hell: The assembly is done much more swiftly by machine. Swiftly, I ducked into a doorway to avoid being seen.
swimmingly adv. smoothly, easily, effortlessly, well, successfully, without a hitch or a problem, like a dream, cosily, like clockwork, without difficulty, handily, readily: The plan has gone swimmingly thus far.
swindler n. cheat, confidence man or woman, hoaxer, mountebank, charlatan, knave, scoundrel, sharper, fraud, trickster, thimblerigger, villain, Technical defalcator, Colloq flimflam man, Slang con man or woman, US bunco-artist, four-flusher: Swindlers tricked them out of all their cash and traveller's cheques.
swingeing adj. huge, immense, enormous, considerable, drastic, severe, harsh, stringent, punishing, devastating, painful, excruciating, major, daunting, Draconian, oppressive, exorbitant, excessive, violent, Colloq thumping: They have instituted a truly swingeing increase in commuter fares. She gives me a swingeing headache.
swipe v. 1 Usually, swipe at. swing at, strike at, hit at, lash out at: He swiped away at the golf ball but kept missing it. 2 steal, filch, pilfer, purloin, Colloq pinch, lift, snitch, Chiefly Brit nick, whip, snaffle: They caught Freddie swiping a bag of mints at Woolworth's. --n. 3 swing, strike, clip: Ronald took a swipe at the ball with his racket.
swish v. 1 hiss, whisk, rustle, whisper, susurrate: I heard Elena swish up behind me in her red silk taffeta dress. --n. 2 hiss, hissing sound, whoosh, swoosh, rustle, whistle: With a quick swish the machete knifed through the underbrush. --adj. 3 elegant, fashionable, stylish, de rigueur, smart, Colloq posh, plush, ritzy, swell, swank(y): Liza bought a swish new outfit for the wedding. 4 homosexual, effeminate, swishy, camp(y), US fruity, limp-wristed, Colloq queer, gay, Chiefly Brit bent, US faggy, Slang kinky: He used to bring his swish friends here, but not lately.
swivel v. 1 pivot, turn, rotate, spin, revolve, pirouette, move freely: This joint allows the arm to swivel in all directions. --n. 2 pivot, elbow-joint, gimbal, ball-and-socket joint: The stern-chaser is fitted with a swivel, allowing it to be fired at any angle.
swoop v. 1 descend, dive, sweep down, pounce, stoop: The eagle swooped down across the stream, catching a salmon in its talons. --n. 2 descent, dive, sweep, pounce, stoop, stroke, blow, rush: The police raid caught several drug dealers in one fell swoop.
symbol n. representation, figure, metaphor, allegory, insigne (singular; plural is insignia), token, sign, emblem, badge, image, logotype, mark, trade mark, colophon, brand, code, abbreviation, phonogram, initialism, cryptogram, acronym, monogram, password, shibboleth, watchword, code word; arms, bearing, armorial bearing, crest, escutcheon, coat of arms, banner, flag, pennant, standard, Colloq logo: This jewel is a mere symbol of my devotion and love for you.
symbolize v. represent, stand for, denote, connote, suggest, express, imply, signify, mean, typify, exemplify, betoken, illustrate, embody, epitomize: Green symbolizes envy and jealousy, red anger, blue sadness, white purity, and so on.
symmetry n. balance, proportion, evenness, order, orderliness, regularity, uniformity, congruity, congruousness, correspondence, agreement, harmony, consistency, equality: With the crudest of tools, the pyramid builders achieved incredible symmetry.
sympathize v. 1 Often, sympathize with. suffer or grieve or mourn (with), feel (sorry) (for), have pity (for), empathize (with), condole (with), commiserate (with): I sympathized with you over the loss of your grandfather. Now that mine is gone, it is your turn to sympathize. 2 Often, sympathize with. harmonize (with), get along (with), relate (to), identify (with), go along (with), see eye to eye (with), agree (with), side (with), understand, be en rapport (with), be in sympathy (with), be simpatico (with), have (a) rapport (with), Colloq be or vibrate on the same frequency or wavelength (with), Slang dig: I can sympathize with anyone who despises terrorism.
sympathy n. 1 compassion, commiseration, pity, concern, tenderness, empathy, understanding, solicitousness, warmth, tender-heartedness, warm-heartedness, Archaic ruth: We feel great sympathy for any child who loses a pet. 2 agreement, harmony, compatibility, rapport, concord, accord, fellow-feeling, congeniality, affinity, closeness, unity, communion, fellowship, camaraderie: It is amazing that there can be so much sympathy between two such different people.
symptomatic adj. Often, symptomatic of. indicative (of), representative (of), suggestive (of), characteristic (of), emblematic (of), symbolic (of), peculiar (to), specific (to), idiosyncratic (of); indicating, suggesting: A high fever is symptomatic of many illnesses.
synonymous adj. Often, synonymous with or to. equal (to), equivalent (to), tantamount (to), identified (with), corresponding (to or with); transposable (with), exchangeable (with), identical (to or with), interchangeable (with), the same (as): A word is almost never truly synonymous with another in all respects. Even terms like 'salt' and 'sodium chloride' are not synonymous.
synthesis n. blend, compound, merge, union, amalgamation, coalescence, integration, unifying, unification, composite, composition, mixture, combination; compounding, combining, blending, merging, union, amalgamation, coalescence, integrating, mixing, fusing, fusion, unifying, unification: This mixture is a synthesis of many different ingredients. How do they effect the synthesis of coal, water, and air to make nylon?
system n. 1 organized whole, organization, set, group, combination; structure, arrangement, pattern, set-up: Some believe that the universe is a vast ordered system, others that it is chaos in which only man sees order. It took years to establish the banking system in this country. 2 scheme, method, approach, modus operandi, way, procedure, methodology, technique, plan, process, practice, routine: There is a proper system for doing the job and you should keep to it.
tab n. 1 flap, tag, loop, ticket, sticker, label, flag, lappet, strap, handle: Pull on the red tab and the life jacket inflates automatically. 2 charge, bill, account, reckoning, Chiefly US check: They left me to pick up the tab at the restaurant for everyone.
tableau n. scene, sight, spectacle, picture, image; composition, arrangement, grouping, effect: The children raptly listening to their father telling a story - what a charming tableau!
taboo adj. 1 tabu, anathema, forbidden, interdicted, off limits, out of bounds, verboten, proscribed, banned, prohibited, restricted, unmentionable, unspeakable; censored, censorable, unacceptable, rude, impolite, indecorous, dirty, explicit; outlawed, illegal, illicit, unlawful: Our holiday in Benidorm is a taboo subject in my house. Many people dislike hearing taboo language used on radio or television. --n. 2 tabu, anathema, interdict, interdiction, proscription, ban, prohibition, restriction: There is still a strict taboo against mentioning bodily functions in public. --v. 3 tabu, forbid, interdict, proscribe, ban, prohibit: The hotel taboos the sharing of a room by unmarried couples.
tacit adj. unspoken, undeclared, unsaid, unstated, unvoiced, unuttered, silent, understood, unexpressed, implied, implicit: The sisters have a tacit agreement not to poach each other's boyfriends. He gave me a look of tacit gratitude.
tack n. 1 pin, push-pin, nail, Brit drawing-pin, tin-tack, US thumbtack: Someone keeps stealing the tacks from the bulletin board. 2 fastening, stitch, baste: Could you put some tacks in the hem so I can try on the skirt? 3 direction, bearing, heading, course, approach; way, path, procedure, method, technique, attack, line: Our new tack was due east. They may have to take a different tack to win the contract. 4 tackle, gear, equipment, equipage, harness, saddlery, fittings, fitments, kit, outfit, rig, rigging, accoutrements or US also accouterments: He has ordered all new tack for his horse. --v. 5 pin, attach, fasten, secure, join, couple, unite, combine, stick, fix, affix, staple, nail, skewer, peg, screw, bolt, rivet; baste, stitch, sew, bind, tie; paste, glue, cement, solder, braze, weld: You were only supposed to tack these together lightly, but now I can't pull them apart. 6 change direction or heading or course , Nautical go or come about; zigzag, veer off or away, Nautical beat: We tacked quickly to avoid striking the buoy. 7 tack on. add (on), append, annex, attach, tag on: When they tacked on a rider to the contract, we refused to sign it.
tacky adj. sticky, gluey, gummy, adhesive, ropy, viscous, viscid, Colloq gooey: The varnish is still tacky and must dry before sanding.
tact n. discretion, diplomacy, sensitivity, savoir faire, judgement, politesse, delicacy, finesse, cleverness, prudence, care, carefulness, dexterity, dexterousness, discernment, judiciousness, adroitness, skill, acumen, acuteness, perception, understanding, consideration, thoughtfulness, politeness: You can count on Robert to handle such matters with consummate tact.
tactic n. 1 move, manoeuvre, ploy, caper, plan, strategy, stratagem, device, ruse, plot, scheme, design: Inviting her husband along was a tactic merely to avert suspicion. 2 tactics. manoeuvres, strategy, plans, campaign, generalship, military science, military operation(s), orchestration, engineering, masterminding: Entirely different tactics must be employed in jungle fighting.
tactician n. strategist, campaigner, mastermind, intriguer, plotter, planner, schemer, manipulator, manoeuvrer, orchestrator, Colloq operator: Montgomery was regarded by some as a master tactician.
tag n. 1 label, name or price tag, mark, marker, tab, ticket, sticker, stub, docket: The tag was clearly marked with a bar-code. 2 name, epithet, label, designation, title, appellation, nickname, Slang handle, moniker: Called 'Eddie the dip', he got his tag 'the dip' because he's a pickpocket. --v. 3 label, mark, ticket, identify, earmark: Please tag all these cartons so we'll know what's in them without opening them. 4 label, name, call, dub, nickname, style, entitle, christen, baptize: I have already said that Eddie was tagged 'the dip' because he was a pickpocket. 5 tag along. follow, trail (along) after, tail, shadow, attend, accompany, drag along with or after: Does your little brother have to tag along wherever we go?
tailor n. 1 couturier, couturire, costumier, dressmaker, modiste, clothier, garment-maker, outfitter, seamstress: She has all her clothing made by her tailor. --v. 2 fit, adapt, suit, adjust, alter, accommodate, modify, change, convert, cut, fashion, mould, stretch, accustom: Your telephone system can be tailored to your most exacting demands.
taint n. 1 stain, blot, blemish, slur, tinge, tincture, (black or bad) mark, stigma, imperfection, flaw, scar, defect; discredit, dishonour: His writing suffers from the taint of pedantry. --v. 2 sully, tarnish, stain, stigmatize, smear, harm, hurt, damage, debase, vitiate, blacken, foul, contaminate, pollute, dirty, muddy, smirch, besmirch, blemish, soil, corrupt, spoil, defile, ruin, destroy: It takes very little to taint one's reputation in a small village.
take v. 1 grip, seize, grasp, clasp, get, get or take hold of, grab, snatch, clutch, catch, capture, obtain, lay hold of, lay (one's) hands on, procure, acquire, gain (possession of), take possession of, secure, win, carry off, abduct, Colloq nab: The police took him into custody. He takes what he can get. When it comes to ineptitude, Sue certainly takes the prize. 2 pick, select, choose, opt for, settle or decide or fasten on or upon: When you get to the fork, take the road to the left. 3 appropriate, arrogate, extract, carry off or away, steal, purloin, pilfer, filch, palm, rob, shoplift, pocket, remove, walk off or away with, run or make off or away with; embezzle, misappropriate, peculate; plagiarize, pirate; Colloq lift, swipe, snitch, Chiefly Brit pinch, nick, Slang knock off, hook, rip off, liberate, US boost, crook: They took what didn't belong to them. 4 reserve, book, engage; hire, rent, lease: He took a room in a small hotel, where he began to write detective fiction. 5 acquire, get, adopt; assume, derive, obtain, draw, receive, inherit: He has taken his bad manners from you. The film takes its title from the book. 6 accept, receive, bear, withstand, stand, endure, weather, tolerate, abide, brave, go through, undergo, suffer, submit to, swallow, Colloq put up with, brook, stomach, Brit stick: She took the news about Leon's relapse quite well. I have taken quite enough from you already. 7 assume, bear, undertake, adopt, arrogate; acknowledge, accept: Kevin took full responsibility for the mistake. 8 believe, think, judge, deem, hold, feel; take for, assess (as), consider (as), regard (as), view (as), accept (for): I take people to be honest till proven otherwise. She took him for a fool when they first met. 9 carry, convey, bear, transport, bring, deliver, ferry; haul, cart: Will this train take me to Aylesbury? They took the bicycle to Old Lyme in a van. 10 take up, study, be involved or occupied in or with, apply oneself to, learn; read, Colloq tackle: I cannot believe that Doreen is taking home economics. He took a course in car maintenance. 11 prove or be effective or efficacious or operative or functional, take effect, take hold, operate, function, work, perform, Colloq do the trick: If the transplant fails to take, the doctors will have to operate again. 12 exact, extract, get: She took revenge by denying him certain privileges. 13 swallow, eat, consume, ingest, devour, gulp down, gobble up or down, wolf, bolt; drink, imbibe, quaff; inhale: Rudolf takes pills of every conceivable colour. The doctor said I could take a wee nip now and then. Sonya stepped out to take a breath of fresh air. 14 subtract, deduct, remove, take away, take from, take off: Take three from five. Five, take away two, leaves three. It's cheaper when you've taken off the discount. 15 end, terminate, annihilate, wipe out; kill: The assault on Leningrad took tens of thousands of lives. The Lord giveth and the Lord taketh away. 16 require, demand, need, necessitate, call for: Remember, it takes two to tango. It took him two years to complete the fresco. It takes six to sail his yawl. 17 hold, contain, accommodate, accept, fit in: This storage bin cannot take anything else, it's completely full. 18 convey, lead, conduct; escort, convoy, guide, accompany: This road takes you directly to the yacht club. He asked to be taken to the manager's office. 19 understand, gather, interpret, perceive, apprehend, deduce, conclude, infer, judge, deem, assume, suppose, imagine, see: I take it from your expression that you've had bad news. 20 charm, captivate, capture, attract, lure, allure: There was something about him that took her fancy. 21 use, employ, make use of, establish, put in(to) place, adopt, put into effect, effect, apply; resort to, have recourse to, turn to: The police have taken measures to ensure that it doesn't happen again. 22 clear, get or go over or past or round or through: Browning's Delight took the last jump easily. He must have taken that corner at 90! 23 experience, entertain, feel: She seemed to take an instant dislike to me. 24 express, voice, raise, put forth: I hope you will not take objection or exception to what I am about to tell you. 25 cause or make or induce or drive or persuade (someone) to go or be: What takes you to M laga in August? 26 act, assume, play, perform: I'm taking the part of the wicked witch in the local pantomime. 27 bilk, cheat, swindle, defraud, Colloq con, Brit fiddle: When he examined his wallet he realized he'd been taken. 28 take aback. astound, astonish, surprise, startle, shock: She was really taken aback at the news. 29 take after. a resemble, look like, be the spitting image or the spit and image of, favour, remind one of, Colloq be a chip off the old block: He takes after his grandfather. b Sometimes, take off after. chase, follow, run after, pursue: When the man stole the newspaper and ran, the shopkeeper took after him at a gallop. 30 take back. retract, withdraw, recant, disavow, repudiate: He now wants to take back what he said about you. 31 take down. a note, make a note or memo or memorandum of, write down, record, put or set down, put in writing, document, transcribe, chronicle: Please take down what I am about to tell you. b debase, deflate, lower, diminish, belittle, depreciate, deprecate, humble, humiliate, shame, disparage, degrade, disgrace: She certainly took that pompous ass down a peg or two. 32 take in. a accommodate, receive, let in, quarter, board, lodge: When her children grew up and left home, she decided to take in lodgers. b deceive, fool, trick, impose upon, overcharge, cheat, mulct, defraud, cozen, bilk, dupe, gull, hoodwink, swindle, Colloq bamboozle, con, pull the wool over (someone's) eyes, Slang Brit do: He was really taken in by that time-share deal. c include, subsume, embrace, comprise, cover, encompass, contain: Our sales figures take in all of North America, not just Canada. 33 take it. a withstand or tolerate or survive punishment or abuse, survive: The Marines are extremely tough and can take it. b See 20, above. 34 take off, remove, doff, strip or peel off, discard, divest (oneself) of: Take off your hat in the house. b satirize, lampoon, caricature, mock, parody, travesty, burlesque, mimic, imitate, Colloq spoof, Brit send up: It is not always easy to take off members of the Cabinet. c depart, leave, go (away), decamp; fly off, become airborne, lift off, blast off; Colloq skedaddle, make (oneself) scarce, Slang hit the road, scram, beat it, split: You'd better take off before they find you here. The plane is due to take off at 18:35. 35 take on, hire, engage, employ, enrol, enlist, retain: We are so busy that we have taken on ten new people. b challenge, rival, face, contend against, oppose, match or pit (oneself) against, vie with, fight: Are you in any condition to take on the champion? c assume, accept, undertake, tackle: You might be taking on more than you bargained for. 36 take out. entertain, escort, invite out; court, woo: He took her out to dinner at a Chinese restaurant. 37 take over. assume or take or usurp or gain control or possession or command of: A huge conglomerate is trying to take over our company. 38 take to. a like, find pleasant or pleasing, feel affection or liking or affinity for, find suitable: We took to each other the very first time we met. He took to computers as a duck takes to water. b leave or depart or take off for, run for, head for, flee to, make for: When the attack came, the villagers took to the hills. 39 take up. a pick up, accept, agree to, acquiesce to, accede to: She took up his offer, and they've been married for forty years. b assume, resume, carry on, continue, go on with, follow on with, pick up: After a pause, he took up the thread of the story once more. c espouse, embrace, become interested or involved in, support, sponsor, advocate: She took up the cause of women's rights at her age? d occupy, cover, use (up), fill (up): Bernard's exercise equipment now takes up half the living-room. e deal with, treat, consider, bring up, raise: Next week our panellists will take up the question, 'Who benefits from education?' --n. 40 revenue, takings, yield, return, receipts, proceeds, gain, profit(s); gate, box office: How much was the take from the first day?
taken adj. captivated, entranced, enchanted, charmed, bewitched, infatuated: I was so taken with Lucinda that I started blushing like a teenager.
taking adj. attractive, alluring, engaging, captivating, winning, winsome, charming, entrancing, enchanting, bewitching, fetching, fascinating, delightful, irresistible, compelling, intriguing, prepossessing: Cassie's taking ways won her many friends. tale n. 1 story, narrative, report, account, record, chronicle, history, narration, recital, anecdote: We were brought up on tales of the supernatural. Her tale of what happened does not agree with the facts. 2 falsehood, lie, fiction, fib, fabrication, untruth, falsification, exaggeration, Colloq tall tale or story, (cock-and-bull) story, US fish story: He told some tale about having been captured by urban guerrillas. 3 rumour, gossip, slander, allegation, tittle-tattle, libel, story, US chiefly naval scuttlebutt: I have been hearing tales about wild parties at the neighbours' again.
talent n. 1 ability, power, gift, faculty, flair, genius, facility, aptitude, capacity, knack, ingenuity, forte, strength; endowment: Bill's extraordinary talent for playing the trombone was widely acclaimed. 2 tendency, proclivity, propensity, penchant, predilection, predisposition, bent, inclination: Annabel certainly has a talent for saying the wrong thing.
talisman n. amulet, charm, tiki, fetish or fetich, ju-ju, periapt, abraxas; wishbone, rabbit's foot, Brit merry thought: He was given a talisman that was supposed to protect its wearer from bad luck.
talkative adj. garrulous, loquacious, verbose, long-winded, voluble, prolix, wordy, chatty, gossipy, effusive, talky, logorrhoeic or logorrhoeal, Colloq gabby, blabby, Slang big-mouthed; US running off at the mouth: The children are so talkative I can't get a word in edgeways.
tall adj. 1 high, towering, big, soaring, lofty, giant, gigantic; multi-storey: The giant sequoias of California are the tallest trees in the world. There are many tall buildings in most major cities. 2 lanky, gangling, rangy, leggy, long-legged, big, giant, huge, gigantic, large: Some of those basketball players are unbelievably tall. 3 exaggerated, overblown, far-fetched, improbable, unbelievable, incredible, preposterous, outrageous, overdone, absurd, Colloq Brit steep: He told us some amusing tall tales about his fishing adventures.
tame adj. 1 tamed, docile, disciplined, obedient, domesticated, house-broken, trained, broken: He used to keep a tame fox in his back garden. 2 mild, gentle, fearless, unafraid: It is amazing how tame animals can be when they do not perceive man as a threat. 3 tractable, pliant, compliant, meek, submissive, mild, under (someone's) control or thumb, subdued, suppressed; unassertive, feeble, ineffectual, timid, timorous, cowardly, pusillanimous, chicken-hearted, faint-hearted, white-livered, lily-livered, yellow, Colloq wimpish: Charles is far too tame to defy Kate. 4 boring, tedious, tiresome, dull, insipid, bland, lifeless, flat, vapid, prosaic, humdrum, bland, unexciting, uninspired, uninspiring, run-of-the-mill, ordinary, uninteresting, dead, Colloq wishy-washy: As a nightclub, the place is much too tame for my tastes. --v. 5 break, domesticate, train, house-train, gentle, master, subdue, subjugate: The brown bear is a most difficult animal to tame. 6 calm, subdue, control, mollify, pacify, mute, temper, soften, curb, tone down, moderate, mitigate, tranquillize: After a week the Lord tamed the violent sea and our tiny craft was allowed to continue.
tang n. 1 pungency, piquancy, bite, zest, zestiness, sharpness, poignancy, spiciness, nip, edge, spice, taste, flavour, savour, aroma, smell, odour, Colloq zip, kick: Ginger root gives the dish just the right tang. 2 tinge, flavour, hint, suggestion, soupon, trace, dab, smack, touch, smattering: The new version has the tang of the original without its obsolete words. 3 prong, tab, projection, tongue, strip, tine, shank, pin, spike: The tang of a good knife goes right through to the end of the handle.
tangible adj. material, real, physical, corporeal, bodily, somatic, solid, concrete, touchable, tactile, manifest, palpable, evident, actual, substantial, visible, seeable, discernible, perceptible, ponderable, objective, ostensive: Leaving aside intangibles like taste, smell, and colour, the important tangible characteristic of food is texture.
tantalize v. tease, taunt, provoke, torment, torture, bait, tempt, plague, frustrate: They tantalized him by hanging the keys to his cell just outside his reach.
tantrum n. fit (of anger or of passion), outburst, eruption, blow-up, explosion, flare-up, storm, rage, fury, Colloq Brit paddy, wax: He has a tantrum every time he fails to get his own way.
tap n. 1 cock, stopcock, pet-cock, sillcock, seacock, spigot, spout, valve, US faucet: Replace the washer in the tap to stop the leak. 2 bung, stopper, cork, spile, plug, stopple, peg: Move the tap from the empty barrel to the new one. 3 wire-tap, bug, listening device, electronic eavesdropper: I think there's a tap on my phone. 4 on tap. a on draught, out of the barrel or keg: They have real ale on tap. b ready, available, on or at hand, waiting, in reserve, on call: He promised to be on tap if I needed him for anything. --v. 5 drain, draw (off), siphon off or out, extract, withdraw: We tapped the wine directly from the casks. 6 open, drain, unplug, sap, bleed, milk, broach, mine, use, utilize, make use of, put to use, draw on or upon, turn to account: Whenever she needed money, she tapped her savings. 7 bug, eavesdrop on, wire-tap: MI5 still taps her phone.
taper v. 1 narrow (down), thin, diminish, come or go down: Note how the trousers taper towards the ankles. 2 Often, taper off. diminish, reduce, thin out, wind down, decrease, fade, lessen, peter out, fall off, wane, subside, let up, slacken, die away or down or off or out, decline, slow (down or up), weaken, abate, ebb, slump, drop (off), fall (off), plummet: Sales of ice skates can be expected to taper off during the summer.
target n. goal, object, objective, aim, end; butt, quarry: The target of the charity drive is to raise 30,000. Why make Peter the target of your ridicule?
tarnish v. sully, disgrace, taint, blacken, blemish, stain, blot, soil, spot, dirty, contaminate, defame, injure, spoil, ruin, damage, harm, hurt, stigmatize, debase, degrade, denigrate, dishonour, asperse, calumniate: By his behaviour, he has tarnished the reputation of his entire family.
tart adj. 1 sour, acidic, acidulous, acidulated, lemony, citrusy, vinegary, acetous, acescent; sharp, tangy, astringent, acerb, acerbic, acrid, bitter, pungent, piquant, harsh: Those grapes are a bit tart for my taste. 2 biting, bitter, caustic, acid, corrosive, mordant, astringent, acrimonious, trenchant, harsh, scathing, stinging, acerbic, incisive, cutting, keen,barbed, nasty, curmudgeonly, testy, crusty, abusive, virulent, sarcastic, sardonic, satiric(al), vicious, cynical: You can rely on Henry for a tart rebuff every time.
task n. 1 duty, assignment, business, job, charge, stint, mission, work, chore, undertaking: It will be your task to keep the others working. 2 (major) effort, test (of strength), piece of work, struggle, strain: Getting him to do anything at all was quite a task. 3 take to task. scold, reprimand, call to account, blame, censure, recriminate, reproach, reprove, rebuke, criticize, lecture, upbraid, chide, reprehend: I was taken to task for failing to notify the police of the break-in.
tasteful adj. in good taste, decorous, refined, finished, tactful, polite, polished, restrained, correct, harmonious, fitting, fit, proper, discriminating, aesthetic, discriminative, fastidious, cultivated, comme il faut, elegant, graceful, charming: Though a bit shabby, her clothes were demure and tasteful.
tasty adj. delicious, delectable, luscious, flavorous, flavoursome, flavourful, savoury, toothsome, palatable, appetizing, sapid, mouth-watering, ambrosial, Colloq yummy, scrumptious: They serve a very tasty curry at that Indian restaurant.
tattered adj. ragged, torn, shredded, rent, threadbare: Above the altar in the chapel hang the tattered standards of the regiment, dating from the Crimean War.
taunt v. 1 tease, jeer (at), flout, twit, mock, torment, annoy, make fun or sport of, poke fun at, deride, sneer (at), scoff (at), insult, ridicule, burlesque, lampoon, US ride, Colloq kid, rib, roast, put down, Brit guy, Slang bug, rag, hassle, US get on (someone's) case: The boys used to taunt him, calling him 'Shrimpo' because he was so short. --n. 2 jeer, gibe, brickbat, insult, scoff, derision, sneer, slap (in the face), raspberry, Colloq dig, US Bronx cheer: At 17, he was six feet tall and no longer had to tolerate his classmates' taunts.
tautology n. repetition, redundancy, battology, pleonasm, iteration, tautologism; repetitiousness, repetitiveness, wordiness, prolixity, verbiage, verbosity, long-windedness: Clichs like 'null and void' and 'cease and desist' are tautologies. Tautology, when called 'repetition', is often used for rhetorical effect.
tax n. 1 levy, impost, duty, tariff, assessment, tribute, toll, excise, customs, charge, contribution, Archaic scot, tithe, Brit octroi, cess, rate(s), dues: Most people try to pay the lowest taxes they can get away with. 2 onus, burden, weight, load, encumbrance, strain, pressure: The admission of fifty new children put a heavy tax on the school's resources. --v. 3 assess, exact, demand, charge, impose or levy a tax (on), Archaic tithe: If the government doesn't tax citizens, where will the money come from? 4 burden, strain, put a strain on, try; load, overload, stretch, exhaust; encumber, weigh down, saddle, Brit pressurize, US pressure: This misbehaviour is really taxing my patience. Our meagre resources were taxed to the limit. Mother was taxed with the responsibility of caring for us.
teach v. instruct (in), inform (about), communicate (to), educate, guide, train, tutor, coach, enlighten, edify, indoctrinate, inculcate, instil, school in, demonstrate, show, familiarize or acquaint with, give lessons (in) (to); drill, discipline: She is qualified to teach chemistry. Captain Ross taught many youngsters to sail. She wants to teach when she completes her training.
team n. 1 side, line-up, group, band, gang, body, crew, party, troupe: Which team does Lineker play for? 2 pair, yoke, span, duo, set, rig, tandem: They hitched a fresh team of horses to the coach and we were soon back on the road. --v. 3 Often, team up. join (up or together), band or get or work together, unite, combine, link (up), cooperate, collaborate; conspire: If we team up, we'll get the job done better and in half the time.
tearful adj. weeping, crying, in tears, sobbing, whimpering, dewy-eyed, blubbering, snivelling, lachrymose, Colloq weepy: She was tearful as she told him they could not meet again.
technical adj. 1 complex, complicated, detailed, intricate, specialized: This is a technical matter, not easily understood by the layman. 2 mechanical, applied, industrial, polytechnic, technologic(al): We thought he would be happier attending a technical school.
tedious adj. over-long, long-drawn-out, prolonged, endless, unending, monotonous, unchanging, changeless, unvarying, laborious, long-winded, wearing, wearying, wearisome, tiring, exhausting, fatiguing, tiresome, boring, dreary, dull, dry-as-dust, drab, colourless, vapid, insipid, flat, uninteresting, banal, unexciting, prosaic, prosy, soporific, humdrum, routine, repetitious, repetitive, mechanical, automaton-like, automatic, Colloq ho-hum, Slang dead, US blah: For almost fifty years my father had a tedious job on an assembly line.
teem v. Usually teem with. proliferate (with), be prolific (with), abound, be abundant, swarm (with), be alive (with), crawl (with), bristle (with), overflow (with), overrun (with), be full (of), brim (with): When the panel was removed, the entire foundation was seen to be teeming with termites.
teenager n. adolescent, youth, boy, girl, young man, young lady, juvenile, minor, Colloq kid: The town ought to provide a place where teenagers can get together.
telegram n. cable, cablegram, radiogram, radio-telegram, wire, telex, (In France) bleu, pneu, Brit trade mark Telemessage, US trade mark Mailgram: She received a telegram from him, saying that he would be arriving on Monday.
telescope n. 1 spyglass, Old-fashioned glass; refracting telescope, reflecting telescope, radio telescope: Through the telescope, he could just discern the American coastline. --v. 2 shorten, compress, abbreviate, curtail, condense, summarize, prcis, digest, tighten (up), boil down, abridge, truncate, abstract: Telescope the report into two columns for page 2. 3 concertina, squash, crush: The first three carriages of the train were telescoped in the crash.
tell v. 1 relate, narrate, recount, recite: Tell me a story. 2 Sometimes, tell of. say, mention, hint at, refer to, touch on, utter, state, declare, proclaim, announce, publish, broadcast, communicate, make known, report, impart, indicate, release, break, let (something) be known, advertise, trumpet, herald, bring to light, disclose, divulge, intimate, leak, admit, betray, acknowledge, confess, disbosom oneself, get (something) off (one's) chest, unburden or disburden (oneself), blab, tattle, Colloq talk, let the cat out of the bag, spill the beans, let out, let slip, blow the whistle on, give away the (whole) show, US pull the plug on, Slang squeal, squeak, rat, peach, US spill (one's) guts: She told of her fears. He refuses to tell where the money is hidden. She talked a lot but told very little. 3 apprise, advise, inform, let (someone) know, notify, acquaint (someone) with (something): He has told me everything. Tell them that I shall be late. He told them nothing of his illness. 4 recount, describe, delineate, outline, portray, depict, express, put, word, explain: I am not sure how to tell you this. 5 order, command, require, demand (that), charge, direct, dictate (that), instruct, bid: Tell them I want no visitors today. She told him to go. 6 carry weight, be influential, be effective, have (an) effect: What we accomplished here today is bound to tell in our favour. 7 determine, say, confirm, aver, assert, asseverate, swear, take an oath, be sure or certain or positive, know (for sure or for certain): It just shows you never can tell. 8 ascertain, determine, perceive, understand, make out, discern, identify, recognize, distinguish, discriminate, differentiate: I cannot tell if that is George or not. I can't tell George from John in this photograph. 9 predict, prophesy, forecast, foretell, foresee, forecast, determine, ascertain, know: Who can tell what tomorrow will bring? 10 tell off. scold, reprimand, berate, chide, castigate, censure, take to task, rebuke, lecture, reproach, reprove, Colloq give (someone) a tongue-lashing, rake or haul (someone) over the coals, give (someone) a piece of (one's) mind, tick off, Slang tear a strip off, US chew out: He was told off for being late for dinner again. 11 tell on. tattle on, blab about, Brit grass on: Charlotte never forgave Tim for telling on her to Aunt Jane.
telling adj. 1 effective, effectual, influential, weighty, important, powerful, forceful, potent, significant, considerable, striking: The new colour scheme in the office has had a telling effect on morale. --n. 2 tattling, (too) revealing, Colloq letting the cat out of the bag, giving away the whole show: I cannot say why her key was found in his pocket - that would be telling.
temperamental adj. 1 moody, sensitive, touchy, hypersensitive, volatile, irascible, irritable, petulant, testy, short-tempered, hot-tempered, hotheaded, hot-blooded, excitable, explosive, on a short fuse or US fuze, capricious, impatient, bad-humoured, curt, brusque, short, gruff, bluff, curmudgeonly, waspish, snappish, peevish, crabby, crabbed, grumpy, huffish, huffy, crotchety, US cranky, Colloq grouchy: He's not usually temperamental - must be something he ate. 2 erratic, uneven, unreliable, inconsistent, undependable, unpredictable: That car of mine is getting temperamental in its old age.
temperate adj. 1 moderate, reasonable, (self-)restrained, disciplined, controlled, forbearing, reasonable, sensible, sane, rational, not excessive, composed, steady, stable, even-tempered, equable, sober, sober-sided, sober-minded, mild, dispassionate, unimpassioned, cool, cool-headed, unexcited, calm, unruffled, tranquil, imperturbable, unperturbed, self-possessed, quiet, serene: Even the most temperate of women would lose her cool when dealing with a man like that. 2 abstemious, teetotal, abstinent, continent, moderate, sober; chaste, celibate, austere, ascetic, self-denying, puritanical: Those who lead temperate lives seem to live no longer than those who yield to dissipation.
tempestuous adj. stormy, wild, uncontrolled, uncontrollable, disrupting, disruptive, turbulent, tumultuous, riotous, chaotic, uproarious, boisterous, frantic, frenzied, frenetic, furious, wrathful, vehement, fiery, impassioned, fierce: They had a tempestuous relationship, and did not live together for very long.
temple n. place or house of worship, holy place, house of God, church, synagogue, mosque, pagoda, cathedral, sanctuary, chapel, shrine, Yiddish shul or schul: Temples to gods are found throughout the world.
temporal adj. 1 earthly, terrestrial, terrene, mundane, worldly, non-spiritual, non-clerical, lay, laic(al), secular, non-religious, non-ecclesiastic(al), material, civil, profane, fleshly, mortal: He believed that his temporal miseries would be compensated for by an eternity in the seventh heaven. 2 See temporary, below.
temporary adj. impermanent, makeshift, stopgap, stand-by, provisional; pro tem, transitory, transient, fleeting, fugitive, passing, ephemeral, temporal, evanescent, short-lived, momentary: I suppose it will have to do as a temporary substitute.
temptation n. 1 tempting, enticing, leading on, seducing, captivating, persuading, coaxing, cajoling: The temptation by advertisers never stops, does it? 2 enticement, seduction, captivation, persuasion, allurement, invitation, attraction, draw, lure, inducement, snare, Colloq pull, come-on: I could never resist a temptation like that.
temptress n. seductress, vamp, siren, femme fatale, coquette, flirt, enchantress, sorceress, Circe, Slang sexpot, man-eater, US foxy lady, fox, mantrap: You warned me against that temptress because you wanted her for yourself.
tenacious adj. 1 persistent, dogged, unfaltering, pertinacious, unswerving, determined, diligent, resolute, staunch, stalwart, steadfast, strong, sturdy, unwavering, strong-willed, strong-minded, unshaken, unshakeable or unshakable, obstinate, intransigent, stubborn, adamant, obdurate, refractory, immovable, inflexible, rigid, firm, unyielding, uncompromising: Despite his age, Christopher maintains a tenacious grip on reality. 2 cohesive, strong, tough; adhesive, sticky, clinging; gummy, gluey, mucilaginous, glutinous, viscous, viscid: The bricks are then smeared over with a tenacious mud, which dries hard. 3 Often, tenacious of. clinging (to), grasping, maintaining, keeping (up), staying with, retentive (of), persisting or persistent (in), retaining: She is tenacious of the old ways of doing things. 4 retentive, good: Aunt Agatha has a very tenacious memory.
tenancy n. occupancy, occupation, possession, tenure: Our tenancy of the house expires next month. The tenancy of this position is a year.
tend v. be inclined or disposed, be liable or apt or likely, incline, lean, have or show or exhibit or demonstrate a tendency, favour, verge, gravitate, be biased; be prone: The judge might tend towards leniency in your case. I tend to agree. Tree growth here tends towards the horizontal.
tendency n. inclination, bent, leaning, disposition, propensity, predisposition, proclivity, predilection, susceptibility, proneness, readiness, partiality, affinity, bias, drift, direction, trend, movement: Brian has always had a tendency to being overweight. The particles exhibit a tendency to align themselves north and south.
tender v. 1 offer, proffer, present, propose, put forward, extend, hold out, submit, advance, put up, set before: Donald tendered his resignation yesterday. She has tendered the committee an excellent proposal. --n. 2 offer, bid, presentation, proposal, proposition: The city is accepting tenders for the construction of a new bridge. 3 currency, money, specie, (bank) notes, cash, bills; payment, compensation: Pound notes are no longer legal tender in England and Wales.
tenet n. belief, credo, creed, article of faith, ideology, precept, conviction, principle, dogma, idea, opinion, position, view, viewpoint, maxim, axiom, canon, teaching, doctrine: They accept the Golden Rule as a fundamental tenet of their organization.
tense adj. 1 taut, strained, stiff, under tension, rigid: One could see how tense the muscles were under the skin. 2 intense, nervous, anxious, under (a) strain, highly-strung, high-strung, strained, on edge, wrought up, keyed up, worked up, taut, on tenterhooks, apprehensive, distressed, upset, disturbed, worried, edgy, on pins and needles, jumpy, fidgety, overwrought, Colloq wound up, jittery, having a case of the jitters, Brit strung up, US strung out, Slang uptight, US antsy: Try to relax and not be so tense. 3 nervous, anxious, worrying, worrisome, distressing, disturbing, stressful, nerve-racking or nerve-wracking, fraught, disquieting: Those were tense moments while we waited for the winner's name to be posted. --v. 4 tighten, stretch, strain, tauten, tension: The mast will be secure once the stays have been tensed.
tentative adj. 1 experimental, speculative, exploratory, probative, trial, provisional: We have tentative plans for introducing a new work methodology. 2 unsure, hesitant, uncertain, indecisive, cautious, timid, shy, diffident, uneasy, apprehensive: The child gave him a tentative smile, not knowing what to expect.
tenure n. 1 possession, holding, occupancy, incumbency, tenantry, tenancy, occupation, residency, residence: The laws on tenure are extremely complicated. 2 (job) security, permanence, permanency: After five years he was automatically guaranteed tenure.
term n. 1 name, title, designation, appellation; word, expression, locution, phrase: The term for that is venturi tube. Habeas corpus is a term of art in law. 2 semester; time, period (of time), interval, length of time, span (of time), duration, spell, stretch, while: During the summer term we played cricket every Saturday. He was sentenced to a long term of imprisonment. 3 sitting, stint, session, course; incumbency, administration: During their latest term of office, interest rates were raised twice. 4 Often, terms. condition(s), provision(s), article(s), clause(s), proviso(s); stipulation(s), qualification(s), assumption(s): According to the terms of the will, proceeds from the patent go into a trust fund. 5 come to terms. agree, come to or reach an agreement or an arrangement or an understanding, reconcile, arrange, settle, compromise: Can we come to terms on the price? He will simply have to come to terms with his conscience. 6 in terms of. concerning, regarding, as regards, with regard to, in relation to, relative to, relating to, in the matter of: The psychiatrist offered little in terms of direct solutions to my problems. 7 terms. a payment, schedule, rates: What terms have they offered to settle the debt? b standing, position, basis, relationship, relations, footing: I always thought you two were on good terms. --v. 8 call, name, label, designate, denominate, entitle, title, style, dub; nickname: Abraham Lincoln was termed, among other things, 'The Great Emancipator'.
terminate v. stop, end, come to an end, finish; put an end to, cease, conclude, discontinue, drop, abort, bring to an end or a close, wind up or down, sign off, cut off: The railway line once terminated at the port. They said they wanted to terminate the contract.
terminology n. nomenclature, vocabulary, language, words, locutions, wording, terms, phraseology, phrasing, jargon, shop-talk, argot, cant, Colloq lingo: Medical terminology requires specialized dictionaries.
terrestrial adj. 1 earthly, earthbound, worldly, terrene, tellurian or telluric, global, sublunary, subastral; mundane: He insists that we tackle our terrestrial problems before spending a fortune on space travel. --n. 2 earth-man, earth-woman, earth-person, earthling, mortal, human: My experiences are beyond the imaginations of you mere terrestrials.
terribly adv. very, extremely, exceedingly, thoroughly, decidedly, unbelievably, incredibly, monumentally, outrageously, awfully, fabulously, Colloq frightfully: They were terribly apologetic about being late. I missed him terribly when he left.
terrify v. alarm, frighten, scare, terrorize, shock, make one's flesh crawl or creep, horrify, make one's blood run cold, make one's hair stand on end, stun, paralyse, petrify: Are you trying to terrify the child with those horror stories?
territory n. 1 area, region, district, neighbourhood, zone, sector, tract, land, precinct, quarter, vicinage, vicinity, purlieu: Each one of these animals stakes out its own territory and protects it. 2 area, bailiwick, domain, province, haunts, patch, Colloq stamping-ground, US turf: Richard would be best advised to stick to his own territory.
terrorist n. subversive, radical, insurgent, revolutionary, anarchist, nihilist; bomber, arsonist, incendiary; desperado, gunman, thug, felon, criminal: The shooting was carried out by a previously unknown gang of terrorists.
test n. 1 trial, examination, exam, proof, evaluation, assay, check, check-up, investigation, study, analysis: My physics test is tomorrow. Have you had a blood test lately? --v. 2 try (out), check (up) (on), examine, evaluate, assess, assay, prove, probe: Someone ought to test the water for purity.
testimonial n. endorsement, certification, commendation, (letter of) recommendation, reference, Colloq blurb: I am happy to write a testimonial for you.
testy adj. irritable, bad-tempered, irascible, short-tempered, petulant, touchy, tetchy, querulous, peevish, hot-tempered, crusty, cross, grumpy, grouchy, bearish, crabby, crabbed, fretful, captious, waspish, snappish, quarrelsome, fractious, contentious, choleric, splenetic, ill-humoured, disagreeable, ill-tempered, edgy, on edge, quick-tempered, crotchety, cantankerous, US cranky, Colloq and US and Canadian dialect ornery: The old colonel made a few testy remarks about the boys' haircuts. Why make excuses for his being so testy?
tether n. 1 lead, leash, rope, cord, fetter, restraint, halter, tie, chain: The dog had broken loose from its tether and was running around in the yard. --v. 2 tie (up or down), restraint, fetter, chain (up or down), leash, manacle, secure, shackle, fasten, picket, stake: Why don't you tether the goat where the grass is more plentiful? text n. 1 wording, words, content, (subject-)matter; printed matter, (main) body (text), contents: The editor had no right to make changes in the text without consulting the author. The text is in 10-point roman type, the footnotes in 8-point. 2 extract, abstract, section, quotation, part, paragraph, passage, verse, line: What text from the Scripture are we discussing next week? 3 subject(-matter), topic, theme, motif, issue, focus: For today's talk I have chosen for my text the problem of alcoholism. 4 textbook, school-book, reader, manual, primer, workbook, exercise book, Archaic hornbook: Today's science texts are much more advanced than those of twenty years ago.
thank v. 1 express or show (one's) gratitude or thanks or appreciation, say thank you or thanks, give or offer or tender thanks: Don't forget to thank your uncle for the gift, William. 2 blame, hold responsible, credit, acknowledge: You have your mother to thank for the present state of affairs. --n. 3 thanks. gratitude, appreciation, gratefulness, acknowledgement, recognition, thanksgiving: I gave thanks that I was again on dry land. 4 thanks to. owing to, because of, as a result of, thanks be given to, in consequence of, as a consequence of, by reason of, through, Sometimes non-standard due to: Thanks to you, I have to commute to work by train.
thankless adj. unappreciated, unacknowledged, useless, unrewarding, fruitless, unprofitable, profitless, unrequited, vain, futile, bootless: She always regarded housekeeping as a thankless task. thaw v. 1 Sometimes, thaw out. melt, de-ice, liquefy, defrost, warm (up), heat (up), unfreeze: We cannot leave till the river thaws. Why not thaw out the shepherd's pie for dinner? 2 soften, warm, become (more) cordial or friendly, relax, yield, relent, bend, unbend, let (oneself) go: After he got to know some of us better he began to thaw.
theatrical adj. 1 theatric, dramatic, stage, histrionic, Thespian; repertory: He joined a theatrical company and his family disowned him. 2 stagy, overdone, camp, campy, melodramatic, overwrought, exaggerated, forced, overacted, overacting, sensational, sensationalistic, fake, false, mannered, affected, unnatural, artificial, showy, ostentatious, spectacular, extravagant, Colloq phoney or US also phony, ham or hammy, grandstand: Does Fergus's theatrical behaviour ever embarrass you?
theme n. 1 subject(-matter), topic, idea, notion, concept, thesis, text, thread, keynote, gist, core, substance, point, essence: What is the central theme of your article? 2 essay, paper, composition, review, article, story, piece, exposition, study, exercise, monograph, tract, thesis, dissertation, disquisition, treatise: I have to hand in two themes next week.
theoretical adj. 1 hypothetical, conjectural, speculative, untested, unproved, unproven, moot, putative, debatable, supposititious, suppositional: The theoretical trajectory will take it beyond Uranus. 2 impractical, unrealistic, pure, ideal, abstract, academic: The suggestion was purely theoretical, since we have no means of carrying it out.
theorize v. guess, hypothesize, conjecture, speculate: It is logically illogical to theorize about articles of faith.
therapist n. psychotherapist, psychologist, analyst, therapeutist, psychiatrist, psychoanalyst, counsellor, advisor, Colloq shrink: For some problems it is best to seek the advice of a trained counsellor or therapist.
therefore adv. consequently, so, thus, as a result or consequence, hence, ergo, for that reason, wherefore, accordingly, that being so or the case: Demand for our products has fallen dramatically, and we cannot therefore expect to make a profit this year.
thesis n. 1 argument, theory, proposition, point, contention, belief, idea, premise or premiss, assumption, view, assertion, precept, opinion, notion, theorem, axiom, postulate: Think how many centuries it took man to come to grips with the thesis that all men are created equal. 2 See theme, 2, above.
thick adj. 1 broad, wide, solid, thickset, burly, ample, solid, bulky, substantial, beamy: He sank his teeth into the thickest sandwich I have ever seen. She is a bit thicker in the mid-section than I had remembered, but a good ketch nonetheless. 2 Usually, thick with. dense, solid, compact, concentrated, condensed, packed, close-packed, compressed, crowded, choked, filled, full, deep, clotted, chock-full or choke-full or chuck-full, chock-a-block, teeming, swarming, alive, bristling, crawling, bursting, crammed, jammed, brimming, Colloq lousy with: The gallery was thick with visitors. 3 compact, condensed, compressed, choking, packed, impenetrable, impassable, dense; pea-soup, soupy, murky, misty, foggy, smoggy, smoky, opaque, obscure, obscuring, hazy: We plunged deeper into the thick jungle. A thick fog blanketed the valley. 4 abundant, plentiful, bushy, luxuriant: Her thick red hair tumbled down over her shoulders. 5 dense, viscid, viscous, gelatinous, mucilaginous, gluey, glutinous, ropy, coagulated, clotted, congealed, jelled, jellied, inspissated, stiffish; stiff, firm, rigid, solid: For a thicker sauce, use cornflour. 6 thickheaded, thick-witted, thick-skulled, dense, stupid, slow, slow-witted, dull, dull-witted, stolid, obtuse, gormless, boneheaded, fat-headed, pin-headed, wooden-headed, addle-pated, halfwitted, block-headed, doltish, Boeotian, cretinous, imbecilic, moronic, US thimble-witted; insensitive, thick-skinned; Colloq dim-witted, Slang dopey: How could anyone so thick have become an executive? 7 guttural, hoarse, throaty, raspy, rasping, rough, husky, grating, gravelly, indistinct, distorted, inarticulate; gruff, raucous: 'I need you,' he moaned, his voice thick with emotion. 8 close, friendly, like that, inseparable, devoted, hand in glove, on good terms, on the best (of) terms, intimate, Colloq chummy, pally, (as) thick as thieves, Brit matey, well in, US palsy-walsy: We were thick in the old days, going everywhere together. 9 marked, pronounced, strong, decided, obvious, typical: She speaks English with a thick Polish accent. --n. 10 core, heart, centre, middle, focus, midst: If it's a fight, you can be sure that Timothy will be in the thick of it.
thicket n. copse, brake, grove, covert, wood, Brit spinney: We concealed our horses in the thicket and stole ahead on foot.
thief n. 1 robber, burglar, cat burglar, housebreaker, picklock, sneak-thief, safe-cracker, pilferer, shoplifter, purloiner; embezzler, peculator; pickpocket, cutpurse, purse-snatcher, mugger, highwayman, footpad, brigand, bandit, thug, dacoit, ruffian, outlaw, desperado, hijacker, gunman, plunderer; poacher; Technical kleptomaniac, Australian bush-ranger, US road-agent, Colloq hold-up man, crook, US second-story or second-storey man, bandito or bandido, Slang cracksman, box man, dip, stick-up man: They caught the thief who took the paintings. 2 cheat, swindler, confidence man, mountebank, charlatan, sharper, trickster, flimflam artist or man, thimblerigger, Colloq con man, con artist, shell-game artist, US highbinder: That thief cheated them out of their savings. 3 pirate, (sea) rover, picaroon or pickaroon, corsair, freebooter, buccaneer, marauder, filibuster, privateer: They might seem romantic in retrospect, but at the time, pirates were no more than common thieves.
thing n. 1 item, (inanimate) object, article, possession: They went without leaving a thing behind. 2 item, subject, matter, detail, feature, aspect, affair, constituent, element, factor, point: There's one thing that I forgot to mention. It's a small thing, but I like coffee with my breakfast. 3 fad, trend, fashion: Let me show you the latest thing in sports cars. 4 feeling, reaction, attitude, sentiment, emotional attachment; quirk, fixation, preoccupation, obsession; fetish or fetich, ide fixe, affection, liking, partiality, predilection, fancy, love, passion, mania; phobia, fear, terror, aversion, loathing, horror, detestation, dislike, Colloq hang-up: A chocoholic has a thing about chocolate. Pet snakes are not Patricia's thing. Roger has a thing about going out in public. 5 device, item, gadget, object, entity, mechanism, contrivance, apparatus, instrument, utensil, Colloq dingus, doodad, whatchamacallit, thingumajig, whosis, whatsis, thingummy, thingumabob, Chiefly US and Canadian gismo or gizmo: Where's the thing that is supposed to hold the flywheel in place? 6 chore, task, responsibility, matter; act, action, deed, activity, proceeding: The first thing I must do is to phone home. 7 opportunity, chance, possibility: See me first thing tomorrow. 8 things. a affairs, matters, business, concerns: I have to take care of some things at the office today. b circumstances, events, happenings: Things are rarely what they seem. c belongings, luggage, baggage, impedimenta, possessions, paraphernalia, effects, clothes, clothing, goods; equipment, tools, utensils, implements, apparatus, Colloq gear, stuff, Slang Brit clobber, US crap, junk, Taboo slang US shit: Take your things and leave at once! The plumber left his things at the shop.
thinkable adj. conceivable, possible, imaginable, feasible, reasonable, tenable, not unlikely, plausible, believable, credible: It is hardly thinkable that they can be serious.
thinking adj. 1 rational, sensible, ratiocinative, intelligent, reasoning, reasonable; meditative, contemplative, reflective, philosophical, cogitative, pensive, thoughtful, intellectual: Any thinking person would have done the same as you. --n. 2 opinion, judgement, belief, thought, point of view, viewpoint, assessment, evaluation, theory, reasoning, conclusion, idea, philosophy, outlook: There is nothing either good or bad, but thinking makes it so. Do you concur with the current thinking on education?
thirsty adj. 1 parched, dry, dehydrated; arid: I need another drink I'm really thirsty. The thirsty land welcomes the rain. 2 desirous, hungry, avid, eager, ravenous, voracious, burning, greedy, avaricious, hankering, yearning, craving, Colloq itching: The students are thirsty for knowledge and very hard-working.
thorny adj. 1 prickly, barbed, spiny, spiked, brambly, spinous, Technical spinose, acanthoid, spiculose, spiculate, spinulose, aciculate, muricate, barbellate, setigerous, setaceous, setiferous, setose: The insect's feet have tiny thorny projections. 2 difficult, hard, tough, prickly, nettlesome, painful, ticklish, delicate, intricate, critical, complex, complicated, problematic, vexatious, knotty, tangled, involved, troublesome, controversial, nasty, worrying, Colloq sticky, Slang hairy: Many thorny questions have vexed us throughout the ages.
thoroughly adv. 1 completely, downright, perfectly, totally, unqualifiedly, utterly, absolutely, entirely, extremely, unreservedly, wholly, fully, positively, definitely, quite: He is thoroughly stupid, as we all know. 2 carefully, painstakingly, exhaustively, extensively, assiduously, sedulously, methodically, conscientiously, scrupulously, meticulously, intensively, comprehensively, completely, throughout, from top to bottom, from stem to stern, backwards and forwards, in every nook and cranny: Police searched thoroughly again, but could still find no murder weapon.
thought n. 1 thinking, reflection, reflecting, meditation, meditating, contemplation, contemplating, cogitation, cogitating, musing, pondering, rumination, ruminating, brooding, mental activity, mentation, brown study; brainwork, cerebration, deliberation, deliberating, consideration, considering: She was deep in thought. The solution may require considerable thought. 2 idea, notion, brainstorm, observation: I have a thought that I'd like to share with you. 3 consideration, contemplation, planning, plan, scheme, design, intention, expectation, hope, prospect, anticipation, dream, vision: Any thought of taking a few days off had to be abandoned. 4 thoughtfulness, consideration, kindliness, kind-heartedness, concern, compassion, tenderness, kindness, sympathy, attentiveness, regard, solicitude: I don't need any help, but I appreciate the thought. 5 Often, thoughts. recollection(s), memory or memories, remembrance(s), reminiscence(s): Now and then he comforted himself with thoughts of his happy childhood. 6 intellect, intelligence, reasoning, rationality, ratiocination, reason: Some believe that only humans are capable of thought. 7 bit, trifle, touch, small amount, trace, soupon, little, tinge: This champagne is a thought too sweet.
thoughtless adj. 1 inconsiderate, rude, impolite, insensitive, tactless, undiplomatic, untactful, unthinking: It was thoughtless of you to mention her son, who is serving time for possession of drugs. 2 rash, imprudent, negligent, foolish, stupid, careless, neglectful, reckless, silly, unthinking, unreflective, absent-minded, forgetful, remiss, ill-considered, heedless, inadvertent, inattentive: How thoughtless of me to forget your birthday!
thread n. 1 fibre, filament, strand, (piece of) yarn; string, line, cord, twine: Threads from his jacket were found clutched in the victim's hand. The glass is spun out into fine threads. 2 theme, plot, story-line, subject, motif, thesis, course, drift, direction, tenor, train (of thought), sequence or train or chain of events: It is difficult to follow the thread of the story when it has so many digressions. --v. 3 string: Carefully thread the beads onto the wire. 4 file, wind, pass, squeeze (through), pick or make (one's) way (through), inch, ease: He threaded his way through the crowd to reach the dais.
threat n. 1 intimidation, menace, commination, warning, peril, risk, danger, Damoclean sword: It is not honesty but the threat of punishment that deters many from crime. 2 omen, presage, portent, foreboding, forewarning, intimation: The villagers lived under a constant threat from the smoking volcano.
threatening adj. ominous, menacing, portentous, sinister, looming, inauspicious, minatory, minacious, comminatory, intimidating, foreboding, imminent, impending: Threatening storm clouds began to build in the western sky.
thrift n. economy, husbandry, care, carefulness, prudence, parsimony, frugality, thriftiness, sparingness, scrimping, skimping; penuriousness, close-fistedness, tight-fistedness, niggardliness, stinginess, miserliness: Only through our thrift were we able to save enough for a new car.
thrill n. 1 excitement, titillation, frisson, tingle, tingling (sensation), stimulation, Colloq kick, bang, charge, buzz: Victor feels a tremendous thrill when his daughter wins a tennis match. 2 tremor, quiver, quivering, shudder, shuddering, tremble, trembling, flutter, throb, throbbing, tremor, pulsation, vibration: The only warning was a slight thrill in the earth just before the main quake. --v. 3 excite, stimulate, animate, electrify, galvanize, enliven, stir, titillate, touch, strike, move, impassion, arouse, Slang send, give (someone) a kick: They were thrilled to discover that they had won an award.
thrive v. succeed, prosper, boom, advance, flourish, grow, bloom, burgeon, develop, wax, increase, fructify, ripen: They thrived in the invigorating mountain air.
throng n. 1 horde, crowd, host, assemblage, assembly, gathering, mass, crush, jam, multitude, congregation, press, swarm, herd, flock, bevy, drove: Throngs of people packed the shopping mall on Saturday. --v. 2 crowd (into), fill, pack (into), cram (into), crush (into), jam (into), press (into), swarm (into), herd (into), flock (into or to); assemble (in or at), gather (in or at), mass (in or at), congregate (in or at): Thousands thronged the stadium to watch the tennis matches.
throughout prep. 1 during, all (the way) through, from the beginning to the end of: We worked throughout the day and night. Throughout his life he felt the need for constant support. 2 everywhere in, all over, in every part of, in every nook and cranny of, from one end to the other of: I searched throughout the house for my keys. --adv. 3 all (the way) through, everywhere, from one end to the other, wholly, entirely, completely, fully: They were busy tidying the house throughout before his mother came to stay.
thrust v. 1 push, shove, drive, force, impel, ram, jam, butt, propel, prod, urge, press; shoulder, jostle, elbow: A stranger thrust this note into my hand. She thrust her way through the crowd. 2 stab, plunge, stick, jab, poke; lunge: He thrust the dagger into the man's back. She thrust at me with an ice pick. 3 Usually, thrust upon. press (upon or on), impose (upon or on), force (upon or on), urge (upon or on): They were willing to help, but rather thought the problem had been thrust upon them. --n. 4 shove, push, drive, lunge, poke, prod, stab: He depended on his agility to avoid the thrusts of the rapier. 5 propulsion, force, power, energy: The thrust of the photon engines drives the space ship at nearly the speed of light.
thug n. hooligan, gangster, desperado, gunman, terrorist, hoodlum, robber, assassin, murderer, killer, cutthroat, ruffian, Mafioso, (In Paris) apache, tough, mugger, Technical p'hansigar, Brit rough, Slang tough, hood, crook, hit man, heavy, US goon, Australian larrikin: Some thugs roughed him up and took his wallet.
thumbnail adj. rough, undetailed, cursory, sketchy, superficial; brief, short, quick; compact, concise, pithy, succinct: His poetry is a chilling, thumbnail sketch of the way we live now.
thunder n. 1 roll, reverberation, boom, booming, roar, roaring, pealing, rumble, rumbling; crash, crashing, crack, cracking, explosion, blast: We were deafened by the thunder of the tanks crossing the bridge above us. --v. 2 roll, reverberate, boom, roar, rumble, resound; explode, crash, crack, blast: The noise of the jets thundered through the valley. 3 shout, yell, scream, bellow, bark, roar; denounce, fulminate against, swear (at), rail (at), curse (at), execrate; threaten, intimidate, menace: 'Fee, fie, foe, fum!' thundered the giant. No secretary will tolerate his thundering at her.
thunderstruck adj. dumbfounded or dumfounded, astonished, astounded, awestruck, awed, speechless, struck dumb, amazed, taken aback, staggered, stunned, shocked, dazed, numb, paralysed, aghast, open-mouthed, nonplussed, Colloq flabbergasted, floored, bowled over, Brit knocked for six: We were thunderstruck to learn that our team had been disqualified.
thwart v. 1 frustrate, impede, check, stymie, baffle, stop, foil, stump, hinder, obstruct, balk, block, oppose, negate, nullify, Colloq short-circuit: They have thwarted all our efforts to become friendly. --n. 2 brace, cross-brace; (rowing-)seat, bench: These canoes are fitted with two thwarts.
ticklish adj. 1 uncertain, unsteady, unsure, unstable, unsettled, fickle, touch-and-go, touchy: Power that relies on the sword has a ticklish basis. 2 delicate, precarious, risky, hazardous, dangerous, critical, thorny, fragile, awkward: As the canoe drifted towards the waterfall, we found ourselves in a very ticklish predicament. 3 delicate, sensitive, hypersensitive, difficult, touchy, prickly: Cornelia is a bit ticklish on the subject of her holiday plans.
tie v. 1 bind, fasten, make fast, tie up, lash, secure, truss, attach, tether, rope, chain, moor; connect, join, knot, link, couple, splice, unite: He keeps a vicious dog tied to a stake in his garden. Tie the ends of the rope together. 2 bind, truss (up), tie up, lash, pinion, restrict, confine, restrain; limit, tie down, curtail, curb, cramp, hamper, hinder: His hands are tied behind his back. According to the terms of the agreement, my hands are tied and I can do nothing. 3 connect, associate, unite, join, link, bind (up), affiliate, ally, league, team (up): Our business interests are tied to those of the major banks. 4 equal, even, be equal or even (with), match, be neck and neck (with): We tied them for first place. Yesterday, we were tied for second. 5 tie down. a clinch, secure, confirm, Colloq nail down: I tied down the PBT contract this morning. b restrict, restrain, constrain, confine, curtail: He won't marry because he doesn't want to feel tied down. 6 tie in. a be consistent, make sense, correspond, coincide, fit (in), be logical, coordinate: His alibi ties in with the witness's testimony. b relate, connect, link, associate, coordinate: They cleverly tie in concern for the environment with their product. 7 tie up. a occupy, engage, (keep) busy: This affair will tie me up till Tuesday. b use, take up, encroach on, impose on: I won't tie up your time any longer. c stop, halt, bring to a standstill: The traffic was tied up for hours. d commit, oblige, obligate, bind: We have tied up all their output for a year. e See 1, above. f See 2, above. --n. 8 link, fastening, bond, band, connection, tie-up, relationship, affiliation, liaison, involvement, entanglement: Isn't there some tie between those two companies? 9 string, cord, lace, rope, thong, ribbon, band, ligature, shoelace, line, leash, stop: The tie of her dressing-gown came loose. 10 equality, dead heat, deadlock, draw, stalemate: When there is a tie, the game ought to go into 'sudden death' overtime. 11 cravat, US necktie: Please put on a tie for dinner. 12 railway tie, sleeper: Ties in Europe are now made of concrete.
tier n. row, line, level, order, range, course, series, stratum, layer, echelon, file, rank, storey: The trireme is said to have had three tiers of oarsmen.
tiff n. (petty) quarrel, disagreement, misunderstanding, dispute, argument, difference (of opinion), squabble, bicker, row, wrangle, US spat: Clare and Geoff have had their first tiff.
tight adj. 1 secure, firm, fast, fixed, secured, close-fitting, snug, sealed, hermetically sealed, leak-proof, hermetic, impervious, impenetrable, impermeable, airtight, watertight, waterproof,: Make sure that the lid is tight. 2 taut, stretched, tense, constricting, (too) small, ill-fitting: She was wearing a very tight dress. 3 strict, binding, restrictive, stringent, severe, tough, uncompromising, unyielding, rigorous, stern, austere, autocratic, harsh, hard and fast, inflexible: You can't get away with anything under such tight regulations. I have a tight schedule next week. 4 Chiefly nautical taut, (well-)disciplined, orderly, neat, well-organized, trim, tidy, smart: He runs a tight ship. 5 stingy, niggardly, mean, penurious, miserly, parsimonious, penny-pinching, tight-fisted, close-fisted, Colloq Brit mingy: Glenn is much too tight to buy anyone a drink. 6 close, (almost) even, (highly) competitive, neck and neck, evenly matched: It is going to be a tight race. 7 difficult, trying, dangerous, perilous, risky, hazardous, touchy, problematic, sticky, tricky, ticklish, precarious, touch-and-go: The strike has created a tight situation at the office. 8 tipsy, drunk, intoxicated, Colloq high, woozy, under the influence, Brit tiddly: When I saw her, she was too tight to drive. 9 scarce, scanty, hard to find or come by, rare; dear, expensive: Entrepreneurs have found investment money to be pretty tight this year. --adv. 10 tightly, securely, firmly; closely: Keep this door closed tight. Hold me tight. Her hands were clasped tight in prayer. 11 compactly, densely, solidly, firmly, closely: We were packed so tight in the bus that no one could move.
tight-lipped adj. close-mouthed, silent, quiet, mum, mute, close-lipped, noncommittal, reticent, secretive, taciturn, unforthcoming, uncommunicative, reserved: He remained tight-lipped about his activities during the war.
tights n.pl. US and Canadian and New Zealand panty hose, Australian and US also pantihose: It was much too hot to wear tights.
till n. money or cash-drawer, cash-box or register: He insists that the money was in the till when he left last night.
timber n. 1 trees, forest, woodland: The standing timber has been seriously depleted in Brazil. 2 wood, beams, boards, planks, US and Canadian lumber: The timber for our new house arrived today. 3 material, potential, stuff, character, quality, talent, prospect: Agatha seems to be good management timber.
time n. 1 period, interval, stretch, spell, patch: I was going through a bad time when we last met. 2 period, interval, stretch, while, span, space, term, duration: It is a long time since I have seen you. In the time I took to write this, she had vanished. 3 hour; point, moment: What time is it? At what time is our appointment? 4 age, period, epoch, era, lifetime, heyday, day(s): The novel is set in the time of the Caesars. 5 opportunity, chance, occasion: You must make time to visit your mother. 6 experience: I had a wonderful time at your party. 7 tempo, beat, rhythm, metre, measure: They are playing 'Teddy Bears' Picnic' in march time. 8 ease, leisure; convenience: He'll be there in his own time. 9 Often, times. life, things, circumstance, conditions, everything, culture, mores, habits, values: How times have changed since we were young! 10 ahead of time. (bright and) early, prematurely, beforehand, in good time: He arrived ahead of time and had to wait. 11 all the time. always, ever, constantly, continuously, continually, perpetually, at all times, without surcease, unceasingly: Mother is after me all the time to do my homework. 12 at one time. a once, once upon a time, on one occasion, previously, in days of yore, formerly, heretofore, in the (good) old days: At one time you thought me beautiful. b simultaneously, (all) at once, at the same time, together, all together, in unison: The car can only carry five people at one time. 13 at the same time. a all the same, nonetheless, yet, even so, but, however, be that as it may, nevertheless, notwithstanding, just the same: I love her; at the same time, I cannot live with her. b See 12 (b), above. 14 at times. from time to time, occasionally, (every) now and then, once in a while, on occasion, every so often, at intervals, sometimes, Colloq every so often: At times, Ingrid would come over and cook dinner for me. 15 behind the times. old-fashioned, outdated, dated, outmoded, antiquated, pass, obsolescent, obsolete, Colloq old hat, dead: Isn't 'The Lambeth Walk' a bit behind the times? 16 for the time being. for now, for the present, for the moment, meanwhile, temporarily, pro tempore, pro tem, Archaic for the nonce: He has been appointed chairman for the time being. 17 in no time. at once, forthwith, straightaway, immediately, quickly, speedily, without delay, swiftly: The pizza we ordered was delivered in no time. 18 in time. a in timely fashion, early, in good time, in the nick of time: The doctor arrived in time to save the baby. b soon, one of these days, sometime, someday, one day, eventually, sooner or later, anon: In time, people might be living on the moon. 19 on time. a punctually, on the dot, in good time: He is never on time for his appointments. b in instalments, on terms, on account, on credit, Colloq Brit on the never-never, on hire purchase or hp: We bought the car on time. 20 take (one's) time. dawdle, dilly-dally, shilly-shally, delay, linger, loiter: He's certainly taking his time with his report. 21 time and again. again (and again), repeatedly, (over and) over again, time and time again, time after time, frequently, often, many times, on many occasions: Time and again I warned him he'd get a ticket if he parked there. --v. 22 schedule, set, regulate, control: The trains are timed to arrive five minutes apart. 23 schedule, set, organize, adjust, fix: She timed her entrance to coincide exactly with the crash of the cymbals.
timeless adj. eternal, everlasting, immortal, undying, endless, unending, ceaseless, abiding, deathless, ageless, changeless, unchanged, immutable, unchanging, permanent, indestructible: He was enraptured by the timeless beauty of the heavens.
time-serving adj. self-seeking, self-serving, selfish, self-indulgent, ambitious, mercenary, venal, greedy, profit-oriented, fortune-hunting, gold-digging, opportunistic, hypocritical, obsequious, sycophantic, toadying, toad-eating, boot-licking, subservient, Colloq on the make, on the take, Slang US out for numero uno, Taboo slang brown-nosing: Members of the party were known to be time-serving and untrustworthy.
time-worn adj. ageing, old, tired, worn, time-scarred, decrepit, dilapidated, tumbledown, ramshackle, run-down, dog-eared, ragged, moth-eaten, threadbare, seedy, shabby, archaic, antique, well-worn, worn out, pass, broken-down, old-fashioned, out-dated, dated, antiquated, ancient, obsolescent, obsolete, stereotyped, stereotypic(al), hackneyed, stale, trite, overused, Colloq old hat: She went into her time-worn routine about two living as cheaply as one.
tinker v. trifle, dabble, meddle, mess (around or about), toy, fool or play (around or about), Brit potter or US putter (about or around), Colloq fiddle or monkey or muck (about or around): Graham has always enjoyed tinkering with engines.
tint n. 1 tincture, wash, hue, colour, cast; tinge, touch, hint, trace, dash, colouring, shade, tone, suggestion: In the west a tint of pink lingered in the sky. I thought I detected a tint of anger in his voice. 2 dye, rinse, wash, stain, tincture, colourant, colouring, touch-up: What's the harm in granny's using blue hair tint? --v. 3 dye, stain, colour, rinse, tinge, touch up: Sandra tints her hair to give it a coppery sheen. 4 tinge, colour, influence, affect, taint, stain: A deep pessimism tints all his writing.
tip n. 1 end, extremity, peak, apex, summit, vertex, cap, top, pinnacle, tiptop, crown, head, terminal, ferrule or ferule, finial, nib or neb, point: The tip of the mountain showed above the clouds. He broke off the tip of the billiard cue. --v. 2 top, cap, crown, surmount: The foil is tipped with a rubber button to prevent injury.
tip n. 1 gratuity, baksheesh, pourboire, douceur, lagniappe or lagnappe, present, gift, Colloq little something: That waiter didn't deserve a tip. 2 tip-off, (inside) information, warning, advice, suggestion, clue, hint, pointer, forecast, prediction, Colloq Brit gen: Louie had a tip that the police were coming. Her tip was 'Flapdoodle' to win the fifth race. --v. 3 reward: Why did you tip the barmaid? 4 Usually, tip off. advise, warn, caution, alert, forewarn, notify, let (someone) know, Colloq let (someone) in on: The thieves were tipped off and never arrived.
tire v. 1 weary, tire out, fatigue, exhaust, wear out, drain, sap, enervate, drain, wear out, debilitate, weaken, Colloq take it out of, fag (out), take it out of: The long climb tired me. 2 bore, exasperate, weary, irk, irritate, annoy, bother: I wish you wouldn't tire me with your accounts of your shopping expeditions.
tireless adj. energetic, vital, vigorous, dynamic, spirited, lively, indefatigable, hardworking, industrious, untiring, unflagging, unfaltering, unfailing, persistent, dogged, tenacious, pertinacious, persevering, staunch, sedulous, unwavering, unswerving, undeviating, steady, steadfast, resolute, determined: We all appreciate the honorary secretary's tireless efforts on behalf of our fund-raising this year.
tissue n. fabric, network, web, interweaving, combination, chain, series, accumulation, conglomeration, concatenation, pile, mass, pack: Their entire testimony was a tissue of lies.
title n. 1 name: You cannot tell much from a book's title. 2 designation, appellation, epithet: Aubrey is now an earl, but he rarely uses his title. 3 caption, inscription, headline, head, subtitle, legend, subhead, rubric: The title on this picture has nothing to do with its subject. 4 championship, crown: He holds the world heavyweight boxing title. 5 right, interest, privilege, entitlement, ownership, possession, tenure; (title-)deed, documentation of ownership: My aunt has sole title to these lands. --v. 6 name, call, designate, style, label, term, entitle, christen, baptize, nickname, denominate, tag, dub: Harold was titled King of the Revels.
titular adj. nominal, so-called, so-designated, so-styled, self-styled, soi-disant, token, putative, theoretical: He may be the titular head of the company, but his brother is really the boss. toast n. 1 tribute, pledge, salutation(s), greeting(s), felicitations, honour, good wishes, appreciation, remembrance(s), cheers: The speaker proposed a toast to the editor-in-chief. 2 heroine, hero, favourite, darling, idol: Jenny was the toast of the town. --v. 3 pay tribute to, salute, drink to, honour, greet, congratulate, felicitate: We toasted our fallen comrades.
toilsome adj. arduous, laborious, tough, hard, difficult, strenuous, burdensome, onerous, back-breaking, exhausting, fatiguing, tiring, enervating, wearying, draining: After a toilsome ascent we finally reached the first camp.
tolerable adj. 1 bearable, supportable, allowable, endurable, acceptable, sufferable: The heat and humidity are barely tolerable. 2 acceptable, unexceptional, common, fair, common-or-garden variety, middling, ordinary, average, so so, mediocre, adequate, run-of-the-mill, passable, indifferent, Colloq OK or okay, not (too) bad, pretty or fairly good: They serve a tolerable lunch in the hotel bar.
tolerant adj. open-minded, objective, forbearing, unprejudiced, unbigoted, dispassionate, broad-minded, indulgent, magnanimous, patient, generous, charitable, catholic, latitudinarian, permissive, liberal, big-hearted, fair, even-handed, considerate: I am more tolerant of people than of their ideas.
toll v. 1 ring, peal, chime, strike, sound: The clock tower bell tolled three. --n. 2 ring, ringing, peal, pealing, chime, chiming, striking, sound, sounding, tolling, knell: Each toll of the bell marked the death of another victim.
tomb n. sepulchre, crypt, vault, mausoleum, grave, catacomb, burial-chamber, final or last resting-place: Every year his tomb is visited by a mysterious woman in black.
tone n. 1 sound, note: Odd tones emanated from the electronic music-maker. 2 stress, emphasis, force, accent, intonation, modulation, phrasing, inflection, pitch, tonality, timbre, sound (colour), tone colour or quality, colour or colouring, resonance, sonorousness, sonority, fullness, richness: The tone of his voice is extraordinarily melodic. 3 manner, style, attitude, air, aspect, approach, note, tenor, tone of voice, mode of expression, temper, vein, spirit, air: Do not take that imperious tone with me! 4 tint, tinge, shade, hue, colour, colouring, cast: The fabric has a silvery tone that makes it shimmer. --v. 5 tone down. temper, modify, reduce, moderate, modulate, soften, quiet(en), dampen, dull, subdue, mute, soft-pedal: Please tone down your voice or the neighbours will hear you. 6 tone up. (re)invigorate, tune (up), brighten (up), (re)vitalize, freshen (up), limber up, get into condition or shape: I really have to tone up my body before I put on a swimsuit this summer.
tongue-lashing n. scolding, berating, reproof, rebuke, reprimand; (verbal) abuse, castigation, chastisement, vituperation, revilement, Colloq dressing-down, telling-off, talking-to, Brit slating, ticking-off, wigging: For all his efforts to please, he only got a tongue-lashing for interfering.
tonic n. 1 stimulant, restorative, invigorant, boost, refresher; Obsolete or literary ptisan or tisane, Technical roborant, analeptic, Colloq bracer, pick-me-up, pick-up, shot in the arm, US picker-upper: His father made his money selling snake-oil tonic. --adj. 2 stimulant, stimulating, restorative, invigorating, fortifying, bracing, strengthening, reviving, enlivening, refreshing, Technical analeptic, roborant: Seeing Maddie and Max again had a tonic effect.
top n. 1 summit, apex, peak, acme, crest, head, pinnacle, vertex, zenith, meridian, crown, culmination, high point, height, apogee: They reached the top of the mountain at dawn. For a change, I should like to be at the top looking down. Samantha remains at the top of her profession. 2 lid, cover, cap, covering, stopper, cork: Put the top back on the bottle when you're through. --v. 3 surpass, better, best, outstrip, exceed, outdo, excel, beat, transcend: It would be impossible to top some of his achievements. 4 surmount, cover, cap, crown, tip; finish, complete, garnish: The entire concoction was topped by a maraschino cherry. 5 trim, crop, lop or cut off, clip, prune, nip, pinch (back): All the trees in this area have been topped to let in more sunlight. 6 scale, climb, ascend, surmount: The party topped Annapurna the next day. 7 top up. fill (up), refresh, refill, replenish, US freshen (up): He asked the barman to top up our drinks. --adj. 8 best, greatest, foremost, leading, pre-eminent, eminent, first, first-rate, principal, prime, finest, choicest, topmost; excellent, superior, superb, top-drawer, top-grade, top-notch, supreme, peerless, unequalled, incomparable, Colloq crack, ace, A-1 or A-one: Is he the top man in his field? She is a top economics adviser to the government. 9 uppermost, topmost, highest: The top fruit is the best.
topical adj. 1 contemporary, current, up to date, timely: Drug addiction is certainly a topical subject. 2 local, superficial: For a minor injury we give a topical, not a general anaesthetic.
topsy-turvy adj. 1 upside down, wrong side up, head over heels, inverted, reversed, backwards, vice versa: The children were wearing their pyjamas topsy-turvy. 2 chaotic, muddled, jumbled, disorderly, disordered, disorganized, confused, mixed-up, messy, untidy, in a muddle, higgledy-piggledy, Colloq arsy-versy, every which way: The room was completely topsy-turvy and it was impossible to find anything.
torpid adj. sluggish, slow, slow-moving, slow-paced, tortoise-like, lethargic, apathetic, indolent, passive, slothful, dull, stupefied, sleepy, somnolent, inactive, inert, languid, languorous, phlegmatic, spiritless, lifeless, listless, fainant, lackadaisical, pococurante, indifferent, uncaring, unconcerned, insouciant: Johnson said that it is a man's own fault if his mind grows torpid in old age.
torrent n. stream, rush, flood, deluge, effusion, gushing, outburst, outpouring, spate, inundation, flow, overflow, tide, cascade: In minutes the brook became a rushing torrent. They assailed us with a torrent of abuse.
torrid adj. 1 hot, fiery, sultry, stifling, sweltering, broiling, sizzling, roasting, blazing, burning, baking, cooking, boiling, blistering, blistery, scorching, scorched, parched, parching, arid; humid, steamy, steaming, muggy; tropical: It seemed impossible that any creature could survive in such a torrid climate. 2 fervent, fervid, passionate, intense, ardent, inflamed, impassioned, lustful, amorous, erotic, Colloq sexy, hot: The film was noted for its torrid love scenes.
toss v. 1 throw, cast, lob, pitch, fling, hurl, heave, shy, launch, send, let fly, propel, catapult, sling, bowl, Colloq chuck: The goalkeeper tossed the ball into the middle of the field. 2 shake, jerk, stir up, agitate, fling: Lucy disdainfully tossed her head. 3 shake (up), stir (up), agitate, jiggle, tumble, joggle; wave, lash, thrash: Don't you put the dressing on before you toss the salad? The branches of the huge oak were being tossed about in the storm. 4 writhe, wriggle, squirm, toss and turn, thrash: I tossed all night, unable to get a moment's sleep. 5 pitch, yaw, wallow, roll, lurch, undulate, plunge: Our little boat was tossed this way and that in the heavy seas. --n. 6 throw, lob, pitch, heave, shy: His toss went wild and the ball rolled over the cliff.
total n. 1 sum (total), totality, aggregate, whole, amount, total number: The total of wounded came to only fifteen. --adj. 2 whole, entire, complete, full, gross, overall, comprehensive: Total rainfall in that area is only three inches per annum. 3 complete, unalloyed, unmitigated, unqualified, unconditional, utter, out-and-out, thorough, thoroughgoing, perfect, outright, downright, all-out, absolute: My son is a total failure in everything he attempts. --v. 4 add (up), tot up, sum up, reckon, compute: Please total my bill. 5 amount to, add up to, come to, mount up to: The bill totals twice the amount I paid yesterday.
totality n. total, aggregate, sum (total), whole, entirety, beginning and end, alpha and omega, be-all and end-all: The totality of his interests lies in watching soap operas on TV.
totter v. waver, topple, falter, tremble, teeter, sway, rock, stagger, stumble, wobble, quiver, shake, quake, shiver, dodder: He seemed to totter a bit as he left the pub.
touching adj. moving, stirring, emotional, tender, poignant, pathetic, soul-stirring, heart-rending, heart-breaking, sad, pitiful, distressing, distressful: The most touching scene is the one where the boy meets his father for the first time.
touchy adj. 1 (over-)sensitive, supersensitive, hypersensitive, highly-strung, tense, thin-skinned, crabby, crabbed, testy, irascible, irritable, tetchy, temperamental, grouchy, peevish, querulous, petulant, pettish, splenetic, captious, bad-tempered, short-tempered, hot-tempered, quick-tempered, crusty, cross, curmudgeonly, cantankerous, choleric, dyspeptic, waspish, bearish, snarling, snappish, argumentative, disputatious, contentious, US high-strung, cranky: She is very touchy on the subject of her family. He's always touchy in the morning. 2 critical, touch-and-go, sensitive, ticklish, risky, precarious, hazardous, chancy, unsure, uncertain, close, hairbreadth, dangerous, hair-raising, frightening, terrifying, nerve-racking or nerve-wracking, Jocular parlous, Colloq hairy: There was a touchy moment when the fuel leaked into the astronauts' cabin.
tour n. 1 journey, trip, excursion, outing, expedition, voyage, trek, peregrination, jaunt, junket: We went on a guided tour because we were short of time and wanted to see everything. 2 stroll, perambulation, walkabout, ramble, walk, drive; round, circuit, ambit: The government representatives are on a tour of all nuclear facilities. 3 spell, shift, assignment, turn, Military period of service or enlistment: His tour of duty is not finished till midnight. --v. 4 journey, travel, voyage, visit, trip, trek, sightsee, cruise; Colloq globe-trot: On retirement we spent a year just touring around Europe.
tournament n. tourney, competition, contest, match, meeting, event, meet: The tennis tournament was delayed by rain.
tout v. 1 hawk, peddle, sell, promote, talk up, Colloq push, plug: They tout these new headache tablets as miraculous. --n. 2 tipster: He is often seen with racetrack touts.
towards prep. 1 toward, in the direction of, to; for, so as to approach or near, on the way or road to: She turned towards me. I'd appreciate a lift if you're going towards Aston Clinton. 2 toward, to, for, as a help to, supporting, promoting, assisting: We welcome any contribution towards the charitable works of our order. 3 toward, near, nearing, close to, approaching, shortly before: Towards the close of day, the cattle wander back to the barns.
towering adj. 1 lofty, tall, high, soaring, outstanding, elevated, sky-scraping, sky-high, great, impressive, imposing, huge, gigantic, supreme, superior, paramount, extraordinary, unmatched, unequally, unrivalled, unparalleled, unsurpassed: The towering American economy dominated the world for decades after World War II. 2 violent, fiery, burning, passionate, excessive, vehement, intense, consuming, mighty, overwhelming, unrestrained, immoderate, inordinate, intemperate, extreme, colossal, enormous: Every time she mentioned Valentino, he went into a towering rage.
toy n. 1 plaything: Whenever he visited, Uncle Jed brought toys for the children. 2 trifle, trinket, bauble, gewgaw, gimcrack, knick-knack, bagatelle, kickshaw, bit of frippery: After marrying her, he treated her as a rich man's toy. --v. 3 Usually, toy with. trifle (with), dally (with), play (with), sport (with), fool (with), fiddle (with), tinker (with): He kept toying with his watch chain. 4 Usually, toy with. flirt (with), dally (with), dilly-dally (with), play (with), deal with carelessly, amuse oneself with: The cad was only toying with her affections. --adj. 5 miniature, tiny, diminutive, small, dwarf: She breeds toy poodles. 6 imitation, fake, phoney or US also phony, simulated, artificial: This is only a toy watch and doesn't work. trace n. 1 hint, intimation, sign, token, suggestion, touch, vestige, indication, mark, record, evidence, clue: There wasn't any trace of the intruders. 2 bit, spot, speck, jot, drop, dash, suspicion, remnant, tinge, soupon, iota, whiff, suggestion, trifle: The traces of mud on the suspect's shoes proved he had been there. 3 Often, traces. track(s), trail, spoor, footprint(s), print(s), footmark(s): They were following the traces of a buffalo. --v. 4 dog, pursue, follow (in the footsteps of), stalk, track (down), shadow, trail, Colloq tail: We traced him to a seedy hotel in Caracas. 5 investigate, discover, ascertain, detect, determine, find, seek, search for, hunt down or up, unearth, track: Have you traced her whereabouts? I am able to trace my ancestry back to the time of the First Crusade. 6 delineate, outline, copy, draw, map, chart, mark (out), record, reproduce, sketch: We traced Marco Polo's route to China and back.
trackless adj. empty, pathless, untrodden, unexplored, uncharted, virgin, untrod: We found ourselves in the trackless wilderness of central Australia.
tract n. treatise, monograph, essay, article, paper, dissertation, disquisition, homily, sermon, critique; pamphlet, booklet, brochure, leaflet: Daphne was distributing tracts to passers-by in front of the church.
traction n. grip, gripping power, drag, purchase, friction, adhesion: Unable to get any traction on the ice, the car skidded off the road.
trader n. dealer, merchant, businessman, broker, merchandiser, distributor, seller, salesman, saleswoman, salesperson, vendor, buyer, purchaser, retailer, wholesaler: All sorts of traders can be found in the covered market.
tradition n. custom, practice, habit, usage, convention, ritual, rite, unwritten law, institution, form, praxis, lore: Exchanging gifts on Christmas Eve has long been a tradition in our family.
traffic n. 1 movement, conveyance, shipping, transport, freight, Chiefly US transportation: Traffic across the border has resumed. 2 See trade, 1, above: Drug traffic has increased greatly in recent years. --v. 3 See trade, 5, above: The police think that Baines is trafficking in stolen goods.
tragic adj. sad, depressing, lamentable, unhappy, funereal, forlorn, melancholy, cheerless, mournful, lachrymose, dolorous, grievous, morose, lugubrious, dismal, piteous, pitiable, pitiful, pathetic(al), appalling, wretched, dreadful, awful, terrible, horrible, deplorable, miserable, distressing, disturbing, upsetting, shocking, unlucky, unfortunate, hapless, ill-fated, inauspicious, star-crossed, ill-omened, ill-starred, calamitous, catastrophic, crushing, disastrous; tragical: It was really tragic that we couldn't get there in time to say goodbye.
train n. 1 carriage, coach, Baby-talk choo-choo: Will this train take me to Newcastle? 2 retinue, entourage, cortge, suite, following, escort, guard, attendants, retainers, followers, trail; staff, court, household: After the duke's coffin came a train of several hundred hangers-on. 3 line, queue, procession, succession, string, set, sequence, chain, progression, caravan, cavalcade, parade, column, file: The baggage train of the advancing army stretched for miles. --v. 4 discipline, exercise, tutor, teach, coach, drill, school, instruct, prepare, educate, edify, guide, bring up, indoctrinate, rear, raise: We had been trained to put things away and avoid clutter. 5 work out, exercise, practise: Hannah is training for the next Olympics.
traitor n. turncoat, Judas, quisling, betrayer, renegade, fifth-columnist, US Benedict Arnold, Colloq double-crosser, snake in the grass, double-dealer, two-timer: Some traitor in their midst had revealed their plans to the enemy.
trajectory n. flight path, course, track: The missile has a high trajectory.
trammel n. 1 Usually, trammels. impediment(s), hindrance(s), shackle(s), handicap(s), check(s), restriction(s), restraint(s), curb(s), deterrent(s), constraint(s), hitch(es), snag(s), (stumbling) block(s), obstacle(s), bar: He managed to avoid the trammels of domesticity. --v. 2 impede, hinder, handicap, check, restrain, curb, deter, constrain, block, obstruct, fetter, confine: Do not let the limitations of what's practical and possible trammel your imagination.
trample v. 1 trample on or upon, tramp (on or upon), stamp (on), tread (on), step on, crush, press, squash, flatten, Colloq stomp (on or upon), squish, squush or squoosh: After the harvest, we would take turns trampling the grapes. 2 Often, trample on or upon. violate, damage, harm, hurt, infringe or encroach on, ride roughshod over, set at naught, scorn, contemn, disdain, defy, disregard, ignore, fly in the face of, fling or cast or throw to the winds: The military regime trampled on the people's civil rights. 3 Usually, trample out. trample down, trample underfoot, stamp out, extinguish, put out, destroy, crush, break down: The left-wing parties were trampled in a military coup.
tranquil adj. calm, serene, placid, quiet, peaceful, still, smooth, unagitated, halcyon, relaxed; unruffled, sedate, steady, regular, even, dispassionate, self-possessed, cool, self-controlled, cool-headed, unexcited, undisturbed, untroubled, unperturbed: He often thought back to the tranquil, sultry summer days of his youth. How can Eleanor be so tranquil when everything about her is so chaotic?
tranquillizer n. bromide, barbiturate, opiate, sedative, anti-psychotic, anti-anxiety drug, Slang downer, red: She had been prescribed tranquillizers, and developed severe side-effects.
transaction n. 1 deal, dealing, negotiation, matter, affair, business, action, proceeding, agreement, arrangement, bargain: This transaction must not be revealed to the stock market. 2 transactions. proceedings, record(s), acta, minutes, annals, Colloq goings-on, doings: The Society's transactions are published annually.
transcendent adj. peerless, incomparable, unequalled, matchless, unrivalled, unparalleled, unique, consummate, paramount, superior, surpassing, supreme, pre-eminent, sublime, excellent, superb, magnificent, marvellous; transcendental: Can there be any doubt of Einstein's transcendent genius?
transcript n. 1 transcription, translation, transliteration, rendering, interpretation, representation: Most linguists regarded writing as a mere transcript of language. 2 (carbon or machine or Xerox or photostatic or xerographic) copy, carbon, duplicate, duplication, photocopy, reproduction, Photostat, Colloq dupe: I have requested a transcript of the court proceedings.
transfix v. 1 pin, fix, impale, skewer, nail, pierce, spear, spike, spit, stick: The shrike, or butcher-bird, transfixes its prey on a thorn, then picks its bones clean. 2 enrapture, galvanize, electrify, hypnotize, mesmerize, rivet,,fascinate, bewitch, enchant, ensorcel, engross, root to the spot, stun, paralyse, Colloq stop dead (in one's tracks): The felon stood transfixed with terror as the judge pronounced sentence.
transformation n. change, modification, transfiguration, transfigurement, alteration, transmutation, metamorphosis, conversion, transmogrification, mutation, permutation: The transformation in her appearance over a few short months was miraculous.
transgress v. 1 sin, trespass, offend, err, lapse, fall from grace, disobey, misbehave, go wrong or astray, do wrong: She knew she had transgressed and was ready to atone. 2 break or violate or contravene or go beyond or exceed or overstep or infringe or defy or disobey (the law): He had blatantly transgressed the laws of decency.
transgressor n. sinner, offender, criminal, felon, culprit, lawbreaker, trespasser, wrongdoer, evil-doer, villain, miscreant, malefactor, delinquent: The majority of transgressors are apprehended within 24 hours of the crime.
transit n. 1 moving, movement, travel, travelling, motion, passing, progress, progression, transition; passage, traverse, traversal, traversing: We were unable to mail any letters while we were in transit. The overland transit of the island took three days. 2 transport, transportation, carriage, haulage, cartage, conveyance, transfer, transference, transferral, transmittal: The transit of the merchandise will be handled by our regular shipping company. --v. 3 cross, traverse, go or move or pass or travel across or over or through: They were advised to check with authorities of every country visited or transited during their journey.
translate v. 1 convert, paraphrase, change, rewrite, interpret, transcribe, render, decode, decipher, metaphrase: Can you translate this German document? 2 transform, convert, change, mutate, turn, transmute, metamorphose, transubstantiate, alter, transmogrify: Why are people always trying to translate the dross of reality into the gold of dreams? 3 interpret, rewrite, explain, reword, elucidate, spell out: Can you translate this technical legal jargon into plain English? 4 transfer, convey, carry, move, transport, forward, ship, send, dispatch or despatch: Soon after being made bishop of Worcester, he was translated to Winchester.
transmission n. 1 transfer, transference, transferral, transferring, conveyance, carrying, moving, movement, transportation, transport, transporting, forwarding, shipping, shipment, sending, transmittal, transmitting, dispatch or despatch, dispatching or despatching: We were unable to arrange for the transmission of the papers in time for the meeting. 2 broadcast, broadcasting, sending, telecasting, dissemination, communication: Transmission of the new programmes begins next year.
transparent adj. 1 (crystal) clear, pellucid, diaphanous, see-through, limpid, crystalline, sheer, transpicuous: I want completely transparent glass in this window, instead of that frosted glass. 2 plain, apparent, obvious, evident, unambiguous, patent, manifest, unmistakable or unmistakeable, (crystal) clear, as plain as day, as plain as the nose on (one's) face, undisguised, recognizable, understandable, transpicuous: The origin of many English words is transparent because of their spelling. 3 candid, open, frank, plain-spoken, direct, unambiguous, unequivocal, straightforward, ingenuous, forthright, above-board, artless, guileless, simple, nave, undissembling, Colloq on the level, upfront: His transparent honesty makes Clive unsuited to a career in diplomacy.
transplant v. displace, move, remove, relocate, shift, uproot, resettle, transfer: This is the third time the company has transplanted Harry in a year!
transpose v. exchange, interchange, metathesize, switch, swap or swop, trade, commute, transfer: The bank transposed two figures on my statement, reducing my balance by 500.
trappings n.pl. accoutrements or US also accouterments, panoply, caparison, equipage, apparatus, equipment, paraphernalia, appointments, furnishings, furniture, gear, rig, habiliments, decoration(s), embellishment(s), accessories, frippery or fripperies, adornment(s), trimmings, raiment, fittings, finery: Many respect the trappings of office more than the office-holder.
traumatic adj. shocking, upsetting, disturbing, painful, agonizing, distressing, harmful, hurtful, injurious, damaging, wounding, traumatizing: Few experiences are more traumatic than losing a child.
traveller n. tourist, voyager, sightseer, globe-trotter, gypsy, wanderer, hiker, rover, wayfarer, Jocular bird of passage, Colloq rubberneck(er), jet-setter, Chiefly Brit tripper, day-tripper, holiday-maker: Travellers have been greatly inconvenienced by the strike of customs officials.
traverse v. 1 cross, criss-cross, travel or pass or move over or through, walk, cover, travel (over), roam, wander, range, tramp, tour: He has traversed the country from end to end innumerable times. 2 cross, criss-cross, go across; lie or extend across or athwart, bridge, intersect: The road traverses the river several times at Newtown. 3 oppose, cross, thwart, go or act against, go or act in opposition or counter to, conflict (with), controvert, contravene, counter, obstruct, contradict, gainsay, deny: The policies of today seem to traverse those set forth only last year. 4 examine, look into, scrutinize, inspect, investigate, review, study, look at, consider, contemplate, scan, look over, check, survey, reconnoitre, observe: Certain areas of knowledge are seldom traversed by scholars.
treasury n. exchequer, bank, cache, resources, funds, money(s): There was not enough money in the treasury to pay for the scheme. The Treasury indicated their concern at the current state of the economy.
treaty n. pact, agreement, alliance, concordat, entente, covenant, deal, contract, compact, accord: They entered into a treaty not to violate each other's borders.
tremulous adj. 1 trembling, a-tremble, quivering, shaking, quaking, shivering, shuddering, quavering, hesitant, wavering, unsure, unsteady, faltering, doubtful, nervous, shaky, palpitating, jumpy, Colloq jittery: His tremulous hands revealed just how apprehensive he was. 2 timid, shy, bashful, anxious, worried, timorous, fearful, afraid, frightened, scared: I cannot remember when I felt so tremulous before meeting someone.
trend n. 1 tendency, leaning, bias, bent, drift, course, inclination, direction: The trend seems to be towards shorter skirts. 2 fashion, style, vogue, mode, look, rage, Colloq fad, craze, thing: Why is she so compulsive about keeping up with the latest trends? --v. 3 tend, lean, be biased, bend, drift, incline, veer, turn, swing, shift, head: At the convention, the party leaders trended more to the left of centre.
trial n. 1 test, testing, experiment, proof, try-out, trying out, trial run, examination, check, checking, Colloq dry run: The trials of the new life-jackets are to be conducted soon. 2 hearing, enquiry or inquiry, examination, inquisition, litigation, judicial proceeding, lawsuit, contest: Throughout the trial, the accused protested his innocence. 3 try, attempt, endeavour, effort, venture, essay, Colloq go, shot, stab, fling, whirl, crack, whack: This was their first trial at climbing the north face. 4 trouble, affliction, tribulation, hardship, adversity, suffering, grief, woe, misery, distress, bad or hard luck, misfortune, hard times: Mona acknowledged the trial of having ten children and no husband. 5 nuisance, irritation, bother, bane, annoyance, pest, irritant, thorn in the flesh or side, US bur or burr under the saddle, Colloq plague, hassle, pain (in the neck), headache, Taboo slang pain in the Brit arse or US ass: William, who is full of mischief, is a constant trial to his mother. --adj. 6 sample, experimental, exploratory, provisional, probationary, tentative, conditional, pilot: Will you consider a trial subscription to Verbatim, The Language Quarterly?
tribunal n. court (of justice), bar, bench, judiciary, Inquisition, Star Chamber: Should he be tried before a judicial tribunal or pilloried by the tribunal of public opinion?
tribute n. 1 honour, homage, recognition, celebration, respect, esteem, testimonial, compliment, encomium, acknowledgement, acclaim, acclamation, commendation, praise, kudos, laudation, panegyric, eulogy, glorification, exaltation: No greater tribute could be bestowed than recognition by one's fellows. 2 tax, exaction, impost, duty, excise, levy, dues, assessment, tariff, charge, surcharge, payment, contribution, offering, gift; ransom; tithe, Peter's or Peter pence: In exchange for their freedom, the king demanded an annual tribute of a thousand oxen.
trickery n. chicanery, deception, deceit, guile, shrewdness, craftiness, slyness, shiftiness, evasiveness, artfulness, artifice, craft, imposture, swindling, knavery, duplicity, double-dealing, fraud, cheating, Colloq hanky-panky, skulduggery, funny or monkey business, jiggery-pokery: He separated her from her money by trickery.
tricky adj. 1 deceitful, shady, deceptive, shifty, dodgy, artful, guileful, crafty, duplicitous, shrewd, cunning, dishonest, devious, sly, wily, slippery, foxy, double-dealing, cheating: Arthur is a tricky chap and I shouldn't trust him. 2 ticklish, risky, hazardous, sensitive, delicate, touch-and-go, thorny, difficult, awkward, complex, complicated, knotty, uncertain, debatable, Colloq iffy, sticky: It is a tricky decision whether you tell a patient how ill he really is. 3 unfair, unjust, unsportsmanlike, deceptive, Colloq trick: There were some tricky questions in today's exam.
trifling adj. trivial, insignificant, unimportant, puny, minor, paltry, slight, petty, inconsequential, frivolous, superficial, incidental, negligible, commonplace, inconsiderable, shallow, valueless, worthless, US and Canadian picayune, Colloq piddling: Their contribution to musical scholarship has been trifling.
trio n. threesome, trilogy, triad, triplex, triple, troika, triptych, triumvirate, triplet, trine, triune, trinity, three: An interesting trio showed up for dinner.
triumph n. 1 victory, conquest, success, achievement, accomplishment, attainment, coup, ascendancy: The discovery of the drug was perhaps the greatest of his many triumphs. 2 exultation, rejoicing, exulting, elation, delight, rapture, exhilaration, jubilation, happiness, joy, celebration, glory: There was great triumph on winning the World Cup. --v. 3 Often, triumph over. win, succeed, carry the day, be victorious, gain a victory, take the honours, thrive, dominate, prevail; defeat, beat, rout, vanquish, best, conquer, overcome, overwhelm, subdue: Does justice always triumph? The book is about how man triumphed over pain.
triumphant adj. victorious, successful, conquering, winning; undefeated: The triumphant hero returns tonight!
trivialize v. belittle, denigrate, lessen, minimize, undervalue, depreciate, underestimate, underrate, make light of, laugh off, underplay, dismiss, disparage, misprize, beggar, deprecate, slight, scoff at, scorn, run down, decry, Colloq put down, play down, pooh-pooh: Edward tends to trivialize the work of others.
trot v. 1 jog, run; bustle, hustle, hurry, hasten, scamper, scoot, Colloq skedaddle: I trot round the park every morning for exercise. As I need some butter, I'd better trot down to the shop before it closes. 2 trot out. bring out, show, display, exhibit, flaunt, come out with; dredge up, drag out; recite, repeat: Our neighbour trotted out his new lawnmower for us to admire. --n. 3 jog, lope, single-foot, pace; run: It was a delight to watch the young horses in a fast trot round the track. 4 translation, gloss, interpretation, crib, Colloq US pony, horse: He couldn't read Homer without a trot.
troublemaker n. mischief-maker, rabble-rouser, gadfly, firebrand, agent provocateur, stormy petrel, incendiary, gossip-monger, scandalmonger, malcontent, instigator, meddler, agitator: As far as the police were concerned, any protester was, by definition, a troublemaker.
truant n. 1 malingerer, runaway, absentee, delinquent, dodger, shirker, idler, loafer, layabout, Slang Brit skiver, Brit military scrimshanker: Truants were warned that their parents would be required to visit the school. --adj. 2 malingering, runaway, absent, absentee, delinquent, shirking, loafing, Slang Brit skiving: The officer brought in three truant boys found fishing at the lake.
truck n. 1 merchandise, commodities, goods, stock, wares, stuff, odds and ends, sundries, junk, rubbish, US trash: There was no one in the shop and all the truck was stacked in the corner. 2 dealing(s), traffic, business, transaction, trade, commerce, communication, contact, connection, (business or social) relations: She refuses to have any truck with the likes of you.
truculent adj. surly, sullen, bad-tempered, ill-tempered, unpleasant, nasty, obstreperous, rude, unpleasant, ferocious, fierce, savage, feral, barbarous, harsh, scathing, virulent, combative, belligerent, antagonistic, bellicose, hostile, contentious, warlike, violent, pugnacious, Colloq scrappy: I don't care enough for this job to endure the boss's truculent attitude a moment longer.
truism n. commonplace, platitude, bromide, axiom, clich, maxim: You can rely on Vera to utter a truism like, 'It's a nice day', on a warm, sunny day.
trunk n. 1 main stem, stalk, stock, Technical bole: After the tornado, only the trunks of the trees remained upright. 2 torso, body: All that was found of the corpse was the trunk. 3 chest, locker, foot-locker, box, case, bin, coffer, casket: We found a trunk full of old books in the attic. 4 snout, proboscis: The elephant reached for the food with its trunk. 5 (In US and Canada) luggage compartment, Brit boot: We cannot get all the luggage into the trunk of the car.
trusting adj. trustful, unsuspicious, confiding, confident, unsuspecting; nave, innocent, gullible, incautious, credulous: It is a good thing that her husband has a trusting nature. Samantha might be a little too trusting and could easily be deceived.
truth n. 1 genuineness, reality, actuality, correctness, accuracy, fact: The truth of the matter is that he's in love with you. 2 fact(s): To tell the truth, I came here to kill you. 3 in truth. in fact, truly, actually, really: In truth, his name is not Jack Armstrong at all but Ebenezer Braithwaite.
try v. 1 attempt, endeavour, essay, seek, undertake, venture, strive, struggle, make an effort, try (one's) hand at, Colloq have a stab or go or whack (at), take a shot or crack (at): He tried to help me with my homework. 2 test, try out, prove, evaluate, examine, inspect, check out, sample, appraise, assay, look over, analyse, scrutinize, assess, judge: I'll try your way of solving the problem. You won't know if it works till you try it. 3 test, prove, strain, tax: You are trying my patience with your silly questions. 4 hear, sit on, adjudicate, judge, adjudge: There are three more cases to try this month. --n. 5 attempt, endeavour, essay, undertaking, venture, struggle, effort, turn, Colloq go, stab, whack, fling, shot, crack: You have three tries to pin the tail on the donkey.
tuition n. education, teaching, tutelage, training, schooling, instruction, guidance, preparation: The course fees cover tuition and accommodation.
tumbledown adj. ramshackle, dilapidated, ruined, in ruins, decrepit, rickety, shaky, falling apart or to pieces, disintegrating, tottering, broken-down, crumbling, gone to rack and ruin: He lived for years in a tumbledown shanty near the railway.
tumult n. commotion, disturbance, upset, uproar, riot, disorder, disquiet, insurrection, agitation, bedlam, chaos, brouhaha, fracas, hubbub, stir, pandemonium, hullabaloo, furore or US furor, brawl, Donnybrook, affray, row, mle or melee, turbulence, ferment, ado, turmoil, confusion, rampage, frenzy, rage, excitement, rumpus, Colloq US ruckus: The tumult caused by the football hooligans spread through the city.
tune n. 1 melody, air, song, strain, motif, theme: David presents a marvellous half-hour radio programme of show tunes every week. 2 euphony, pitch, harmony, accord, accordance, consonance, unison, correspondence, conformity: She cannot sing in tune. The guitar is out of tune with the piano. Her husband is out of tune with today's fashion. --v. 3 tune up, calibrate, adjust, regulate, coordinate, adapt, attune, align, set: That garage charges too much for tuning an engine. 4 tune in (on). attend (to), pay attention (to), listen (to), understand, be aware (of), be on the qui vive, be alert (to), Slang be on the same wavelength or frequency (with): I am not sure that Bernard is tuned in to what his sister does for a living. 5 tune out. ignore, disregard, turn a blind eye to, be blind to, turn one's back on, turn a deaf ear to: Sally is able to tune out anything she doesn't like to hear.
tunnel n. 1 shaft, subway, (underground) passage(way), underpass; burrow, hole; Channel Tunnel, Colloq Chunnel: The cat got out through this tunnel. --v. 2 burrow, dig, hole, excavate, penetrate, mine: The prisoners tunnelled under the wall and escaped.
turn v. 1 rotate, revolve, spin, roll, reel, circle, gyrate, whirl, wheel, go (a)round or about, pivot, swivel: The earth turns on its axis. Turn the crank to raise the bucket. 2 move, shift, wheel, veer, swing, face: As she turned I noticed a horrible scar. 3 reverse, turn (a)round, alter, change, adapt, reorganize, remodel, modify, refashion, reshape, reform, transform, make over, convert, bring over: He has been trying to turn the business into a profit-making enterprise. He has turned defeat into advance. She managed to turn one of the most loyal membrs of the government. 4 go or pass or move (a)round, veer, drive, walk: Turn left at the corner. 5 go bad, become rancid, spoil, curdle, addle, sour, decay, moulder, rot, putrefy, Colloq go off: All the milk in the fridge had turned because of the power cut. 6 apply, put, use, employ: Is there any way we can turn this situation to our advantage? 7 Sometimes, turn aside or away. block, avert, thwart, prevent, balk or baulk, parry, deflect, fend off, check: He deftly turned aside the thrust of the dagger. 8 form, make up, fashion, formulate, construct, cast, create, coin, concoct, express: Donald certainly knows how to turn a felicitous phrase. 9 direct, aim, point: He turned the gun on himself and pulled the trigger. 10 twist, sprain, wrench: I have turned my ankle and cannot walk. 11 twist, wind, snake, curve, bend, arc, coil, loop, meander, zigzag: The road turned this way and that, following the river bank. 12 turn against. defy, mutiny, rebel, revolt, rise (up) against: The captain had not expected the first mate to turn against him, too. 13 turn back. a reverse, repulse, repel, rebuff, drive back, beat back: At last we turned back the enemy's advance. b go back, retrace (one's) steps, return: We must turn back before it is too late. 14 turn down. a refuse, reject, rebuff, decline, deny: My request for help was turned down. b decrease or diminish or lessen or lower or soften the sound of: Turn down the radio, I'm on the phone. 15 turn in. a go to bed or sleep, retire, withdraw, call it a day, Slang hit the sack or the hay: I usually turn in by eleven o'clock. b hand in or over, turn over, deliver, give in, submit, offer, proffer, tender, give back, return, surrender, yield: Please turn in your visitors' badges before you leave. c turn over, deliver (up), inform on, betray, Colloq squeal on, rat on, finger, tell on: For enough money, he'd turn in his own mother. 16 turn into. a turn to, become, change into or to, metamorphose into or to: Right before her, the prince turned into a frog again. b go or come into, drive into, pull into, walk into: They lost sight of the suspect when he turned into a side-street. 17 turn off. a stop, switch off, deactivate, discontinue; extinguish: First turn off the water, then the light. b disillusion, depress, cool (off), disenchant, disaffect, alienate, repel, repulse, bore, offend, put off, displease, sicken, nauseate, disgust: People who don't brush their teeth turn me off. c deviate, diverge: When you come to the fork, turn off to the right. 18 turn on. a start (up), switch on, energize, activate, set in motion, cause to function or operate: Turn on the light. b depend on or upon, be contingent on, hinge on or upon, be subject to: The success of the venture turns on our ability to capitalize it. c excite, thrill, arouse, stimulate, titillate, work up, impassion: He was really turned on by the girl in the bar. 19 turn on or upon. a concern, revolve about, relate to: The discussion turned on his ability to write music. b be hostile to, attack, assail, set upon, Colloq tear into: Oliver is so unpopular that his own dog turned on him and bit him. 20 turn out. a make, form, shape, construct, build, fabricate, put together, assemble, manufacture, produce, put out, bring out: The plant turns out a thousand cars a week. b develop, evolve, eventuate, happen, result, prove, occur, end up, arise: As it turned out, he lost anyway. It turns out that he knows my sister. c eject, evict, throw out, expel, oust, dismiss, terminate, cashier, Colloq fire, sack, kick out, axe, Brit turf out: When they found I wasn't a member, they turned me out. d dress, fit out, equip, rig out, accoutre or US also accouter: She was well turned out in a beautiful ball gown. e come, arrive, appear, attend, assemble, meet, Colloq show (up), surface: 55,000 turned out for the rock concert. 21 turn over. a consider, muse or ruminate over or about, revolve, ponder (over): I needed a while to turn over the job offer in my mind. b reverse, invert, turn upside down: Turn over the clock and read the inscription on the bottom. c overturn, upset, knock over: In my haste, I turned over the punch bowl. d sell, merchandise: A shop in that location ought to turn over a million a year. e rotate, revolve, spin, kick over: The engine turns over, but it won't start. 22 turn tail. run away, flee, bolt, scoot, show a clean pair of heels, cut and run, take to (one's) heels, beat a hasty retreat, Colloq take off, beat it, scram, skedaddle: He turned tail when I shouted for help. 23 turn to. a appeal to, apply to, resort to: She turned to me for help. b advert to, refer to, pick or take up, have recourse to: Please turn to your exercise books now. c get to work, pitch in, buckle or knuckle down: The neighbours turned to in helping clean up the mess after the storm. d turn into, change to, convert into, become: Lot's wife was turned to salt. 24 turn turtle. capsize, overturn, keel over, upset, up-end, Colloq go bottoms up: The overloaded barge turned turtle and sank in the river. 25 turn up. a surface, appear, arrive, Colloq show (up), show one's face: Guess who turned up at our wedding? b come up, arise, Colloq crop up, pop up: Something will turn up soon for you. c uncover, discover, find, unearth, come across, hit upon, dig up, expose, disclose, reveal, bring to light: We turned up a formerly unknown fact about the shipwreck. d increase or raise or amplify or intensify the sound of: Turn up the TV - I can't hear what they're saying. --n. 26 revolution, rotation, cycle, spin, whirl, circuit, round, roll, twirl; pirouette: He gave the top another turn, just to make sure it was on securely. 27 curve, bend, turning, corner, sinuosity, dog-leg, hairpin bend or curve, irregularity, meander, twist, zigzag, Colloq toing and froing: There are many dangerous turns on that road. 28 loop, coil, spiral, twist: Take two turns of this rope round your waist, then knot it. 29 deviation, turning, detour, shift, change of direction or course: A turn to the right is not permitted at this corner. 30 opportunity, chance, say, round, spell, time, watch, shift, stint, tour (of duty), move, trick, Colloq whack, crack, shot, go: You have had your turn, now let someone else go. 31 drive, spin, ride; airing, constitutional, ramble, saunter, stroll, walk, promenade, amble: Let's take a short turn round the park. 32 trend, direction, drift: The conversation took a new turn. 33 change, alteration, switch: The doctor says that Valerie has taken a turn for the better. 34 Usually, bad turn. disservice, harm, injury, wrong: If you do someone a bad turn, what can you expect? 35 Usually, good turn. favour, (good) deed, act (of kindness), courtesy, boon, mercy: One good turn deserves another. 36 shock, fright, surprise, start, scare: You really gave me a turn, jumping out like that! 37 form, style, manner, mode: Each turn of phrase in her writing seems original and refreshing. 38 disposition, inclination, bent, bias, leaning, tendency: Alistair is of a rather dour turn of mind tonight.39	at every turn. everywhere, constantly, always, all the time: In Scotland, we met with kindness and hospitality at every turn.40	by turns. alternately, reciprocally, in rotation, successively, in succession: The book is fascinating and frustrating by turns. 41 in turn. sequentially, one after the other, in succession, successively, in (proper) order: Each patient will be treated in turn. 42 out of turn. a out of sequence, out of order: I don't want you answering questions out of proper turn, Jonathan. b imprudently, indiscreetly, improperly, disobediently, inappropriately: I apologize if I am speaking out of turn on this issue. 43 take turns. alternate, vary, rotate, exchange: Let's take turns looking through the telescope.
turncoat n. renegade, traitor, betrayer, deserter, fifth-columnist, double agent, apostate, tergiversator, defector, backslider, Vicar of Bray, US Benedict Arnold, Colloq snake in the grass: Labour members who voted with the Tories on the issue were branded turncoats.
turnout n. 1 assemblage, muster, attendance, audience, crowd, gate, throng, gathering: The turnout for the first day of the sale was enormous. 2 output, production, out-turn, volume; gross national product, GNP, gross domestic product, GDP: Turnout has improved since the settlement of the labour dispute. 3 gear, outfit, clothing, apparel, apparatus, equipment, trappings, fittings, equipage: Have you seen Charlie in his mountain-climbing turnout?
tutor n. 1 teacher, instructor, educator, coach, mentor, guru: Bernard engaged a tutor to coach him through the examinations. --v. 2 teach, instruct, coach, educate, school, train, indoctrinate, drill, enlighten, advise, direct, guide, prepare, ground: Twitchell needs someone to tutor him in the fine art of going out with girls.
twee adj. precious, sweet, sentimental, quaint, dainty, cute, mignon(ne), bijou: The tearoom atmosphere is a bit too twee for my taste.
twig n. sprig, stem, shoot, offshoot, branchlet, stick, sucker, sprout, withe or withy, tendril: Gather up some dry twigs for kindling.
twilight n. 1 dusk, sunset, gloaming, sundown, half-light, crepuscule or crepuscle: We enjoyed dinner at twilight on the terrace overlooking the sea. 2 decline, wane, waning, ebb, downturn, down-swing, slump, decay, weakening, declination, diminution: Even at the twilight of his career, Jonas enjoyed the respect of his colleagues. 3 Twilight of the Gods. Gtterdmmerung, Ragnark or Ragnarok: The world ends at the Twilight of the Gods, only to be born anew. --adj. 4 evening, crepuscular, dimming, darkening, darkish, darksome, shadowy, shady, dim, dark, obscure, sombre, gloomy, Literary darkling: The Nymphs in twilight shade of tangled thickets mourn. 5 twilight zone. limbo: He lives in the twilight zone, unable to distinguish reality from fantasy.
twine n. 1 cord, string; rope, cable, yarn: Have you some twine for tying up this package? --v. 2 entwine, braid, twist, intertwine, curl, wreathe, spiral, wind, weave, interweave, encircle, wrap: Annette's front door has roses twined all round it.
twinkle v. 1 scintillate, sparkle, coruscate, glitter, shimmer, wink, flicker, glisten, glint, flash, fulgurate, spark, dance, blink, shine, gleam: The stars were twinkling in the icy black sky. Nicole's eyes twinkled as she told me about Max's latest success. --n. 2 twinkling, scintillation, scintillating, sparkle, sparkling, coruscation, coruscating, glitter, glittering, shimmer, shimmering, winking, flicker, flickering, glistening, glint, flash, flashing, fulguration, spark, sparking, dancing, blinking, shine, shining, gleam, gleaming, dazzle, dazzling: From far off, I caught the twinkle of the sun on car windscreens.
twirl v. 1 spin, whirl, rotate, revolve, wheel, turn, gyrate, twist, wind (about or around): The windmills twirled in the breeze. Katherine absently twirled a lock of hair round her finger. --n. 2 twirling, spin, spinning, whirl, whirling, turn, turning, revolution: He was hypnotized by each twirl of the roulette wheel. 3 whorl, winding, convolution, spiral, helix, coil, volute: The pattern consists of interlocking twirls of green and brown.
twister n. 1 cheat, swindler, confidence man or woman, rogue, scoundrel, swindler, trickster, mountebank, deceiver, fraud, impostor or imposter, Colloq con man or woman, crook: This particular twister preys on the elderly. 2 tornado, cyclone, typhoon, hurricane, whirlwind; waterspout: The twister picked up my bicycle and dropped it in my neighbour's garden.
twit n. nitwit, nincompoop, ass, ninny, ninny-hammer, fool, imbecile, blockhead, halfwit, idiot, simpleton, Colloq chump, moron, Brit silly billy, Slang dope, US and Canadian jerk: That silly twit told the teacher what we were planning.
two-faced adj. double-dealing, hypocritical, duplicitous, dissembling, deceitful, Janus-faced, treacherous, dishonest, untrustworthy, insincere, scheming, designing, crafty, Machiavellian, sly, perfidious, lying, mendacious: That two-faced liar told you one story and me another!
type n. 1 class, category, classification, kind, sort, genre, order, variety, breed, species, strain, group, genus, ilk, kidney: Just what type of person would you say the president is? 2 typeface, Brit fount, US font: The body text ought to be set in Bodoni Book type, the headings in Times bold. 3 prototype, paradigm, archetype, epitome, exemplar, model, specimen, pattern, personification, standard, quintessence: She doesn't consider him to be the usual type of businessman. --v. 4 typewrite; keyboard; transcribe: She types at a speed of about sixty words a minute.
typify v. exemplify, instance, epitomize, personify, represent, characterize, embody, evince, symbolize, suggest: John's views typify the conservative approach.
tyrannize v. Often, tyrannize over. domineer over, bully, subjugate, enthral, enslave, dominate, intimidate, dictate to, order about or around, ride roughshod over, browbeat, keep under (one's) thumb, oppress, subdue, suppress, keep down: The people have been tyrannized long enough.
tyrant n. dictator, despot, autocrat, martinet, Hitler, bully, oppressor, authoritarian, hard taskmaster, slave-driver, Simon Legree, overlord: It seems that no people or part of the world is immune to tyrants.
ulcer n. 1 sore, lesion, abscess, ulceration, canker, chancre, boil, gumboil, eruption, carbuncle, inflammation: That ulcer should be treated before it gets any worse. 2 cancer, canker, festering spot, blight, scourge, poison, disease, pestilence, curse, bane, plague: We must purge this ulcer before it corrupts the entire organization.
ulterior adj. 1 hidden, concealed, covert, secret, unrevealed, undisclosed, unexpressed, private, personal, underlying, surreptitious, underhand(ed): She had an ulterior motive for arriving early. 2 outside, beyond, further, remote, remoter: What you propose is ulterior to our immediate plan.
ultimately adv. finally, at long last, in the final or last analysis, in the end, at the end of the day, after all is said and done, at (the) last, in the long run; fundamentally, essentially, basically, at bottom: I thought it might ultimately come to this. He came to understand that ultimately people must depend on each other.
ultra- adj. extreme, immoderate, excessive, drastic, radical, fanatic(al), unmitigated, outrageous, unqualified, sheer, blatant, out-and-out, complete, thorough, thoroughgoing, dyed in the wool, die-hard, rabid, opinionated, unregenerate, unrepentant, unreformed, fundamentalist, prejudiced, bigoted, Colloq hard-nosed: Ultra-conservativism marked his views till the day he died.
umbrella n. 1 parasol; Colloq chiefly Brit gamp, Brit brolly, US bumbershoot: You will need an umbrella today. 2 protection, cover, coverage, aegis, shield, screen, patronage, agency: What benefits are included under the umbrella of this policy?
umpteen adj. a lot of, many, innumerable, unnumbered, countless, a huge number of, very many, numerous, hundreds of, thousands of, millions of, billions of, trillions of: You've been told umpteen times, 'Don't go near the water'. unabashed adj. unashamed, unblushing, unembarrassed, brazen, blatant, bold, undaunted, unawed, undismayed, unconcerned: I couldn't put up with his unabashed conceit for another moment.
unabridged adj. 1 uncut, whole, full-length, entire, complete, intact, uncondensed, unshortened; unbowdlerized, unexpurgated: This is the original, unabridged edition, with nothing removed. 2 extensive, thorough, comprehensive, exhaustive, all-encompassing, (all-)inclusive: That word is too rare to be listed in anything but an unabridged dictionary.
unacceptable adj. unsatisfactory, objectionable, wrong, bad, improper, unallowable, undesirable, not de rigueur, distasteful, disagreeable, unsuitable, inappropriate, unpleasant, tasteless: Murder is generally regarded as an unacceptable way to relieve oneself of unwanted company.
unaccountable adj. 1 unexplained, inexplicable, unexplainable, mysterious, inscrutable, incomprehensible, unintelligible, strange, puzzling, baffling, peculiar, odd, bizarre, unfathomable: I found it unaccountable that anyone would arrive for an appointment four hours early. 2 not answerable, not responsible: How can you have a governmental committee that is unaccountable to anyone? 3 weird, unheard-of, extraordinary, unusual, unorthodox, uncanny: Sophie has unaccountable powers of perception.
unadorned adj. plain, simple, unembellished, undecorated, unornamented, stark, bare, austere: She prefers an unadorned style, without frills.
unaffected adj. Usually, unaffected by. impervious (to), immune (to), untouched (by), unmoved (by), unresponsive (to), aloof (to or from), uninfluenced (by), unimpressed (by), remote (to or from), cool or cold (to), unconcerned (by), unstirred (by): The duchess remained totally unaffected by the children's appeals for help.
unarmed adj. unprotected, defenceless, weaponless: The army began shooting unarmed civilians.
unattached adj. 1 separate, unconnected, detached, independent, unaffiliated, self-governing, self-regulating, self-regulated, autonomous, self-reliant, self-sustaining, self-sustained: The committee was established as an unattached body, not associated with any organization. 2 single, unmarried, uncommitted, unengaged, on (one's) own, unspoken for: I joined the club hoping to meet some unattached people.
unavoidable adj. inescapable, ineluctable, inevitable, irresistible, inexorable, sure, certain, fated, destined, predestined, determined, predetermined, unchangeable, unalterable, settled, fixed, definite: Punishment is an unavoidable consequence of getting caught for something you shouldn't have done.
unawares adv. 1 unexpectedly, abruptly, by surprise, suddenly, off (one's) guard: We caught the sentry unawares. 2 inadvertently, unconsciously, unintentionally, unknowingly, unwittingly, by mistake, mistakenly, by accident, accidentally, in an unguarded moment: She had betrayed her closest friend unawares.
unbearable adj. intolerable, unsupportable, unendurable, insufferable, unacceptable, too much: The pain in her side was almost unbearable.
unbecoming adj. 1 unsuited, unsuitable, inappropriate, ill-suited, unfitting, unfit, inapt, unapt, out of character, out of place: It is unbecoming to wear your mink coat to the Save the Animals fund-raising dinner. 2 indecorous, unseemly, indelicate, improper, ungentlemanly, unladylike, offensive, tasteless: Father said it was unbecoming for her to use such foul language.
unbelieving adj. incredulous, disbelieving, non-believing, doubting, mistrusting, distrusting, mistrustful, distrustful, suspicious, sceptical, unpersuaded, unconvinced: The unbelieving world thinks that the age of miracles is past.
uncharted adj. unmapped, unknown, unexplored, undiscovered, unfamiliar, strange, virgin, trackless: For weeks he wandered lost in the uncharted jungle.
uncivilized adj. 1 barbarous, savage, wild, uncultivated, barbarian, barbaric, crude, primitive, brutish: He was an uncivilized man living in uncivilized surroundings. 2 unrefined, uncultured, uncouth, loutish, coarse, uneducated, untutored, unpolished, churlish, boorish, philistine, provincial, rough, rude, unlearned, ill-mannered, incondite, unmannerly, unsophisticated, inelegant, gross, gauche: Anna's father forbade her to go out with the uncivilized boors in the nearby town.
unconscious adj. 1 insensible, out (cold), knocked out, senseless, numb, stunned, comatose, dead to the world, Colloq blacked-out: The patient was unconscious for hours. 2 Often, unconscious of. heedless (of or to), unheeding, unheedful (of), insensitive (to), mindless, unmindful (of), reflex, automatic, involuntary, unintentional, instinctive, subliminal, unthinking, unpremeditated, subconscious, unwitting; blind (to), unaware (of), oblivious (to or of), deaf (to): For Tim, scratching his head is an unconscious act. Tim is totally unconscious of how irritating his mannerisms are.
under prep. 1 beneath, below, underneath, covered by: What is under that blanket? The wreck lies a mile under the surface. 2 subordinate to, answerable to, inferior to, second to, secondary to, subservient to, below, beneath, underneath, junior to, directed or supervised or controlled by, under (the) control of, at the mercy of, at the beck and call of: The bashibazouks were under the sultan's top officers. 3 included or comprised in or under, subsumed under: This should be under the heading, 'What is the Stupidest Thing you have done Today?' Under which category is 'Software'? 4 under the aegis or protection or eye or guardianship or care of: The prince was trained under the grand vizier. 5 less than, lower than: I paid under 200 for my VCR. 6 under the influence. drunk, tipsy, high, impaired: The police charged him with driving while under the influence. --adv. 7 below, underneath, beneath: You looked on top of the bed, but have you looked under? 8 underwater, beneath the waves, down, out of sight: We watched helpless as he went under for the third time.
undercover adj. secret, private, clandestine, confidential: He doesn't look much like an undercover agent.
undercut v. 1 undermine, excavate, hollow out, cut out or away, gouge out: If you undercut the roadway it will collapse. 2 underprice, undercharge, sacrifice, sell cheaply or at a loss, undersell: The supermarkets undercut prices and put the independent grocers out of business.
underestimate v. undervalue, underrate, discount, misjudge, miscalculate, misprize, minimize, depreciate, belittle, not do justice to, fail to appreciate, set (too) little store by, think (too) little of: No one should underestimate the physical and mental effort involved.
underground adj. 1 subterranean, buried, below-ground, sunken, covered: They crept through the underground passage into the treasure room. 2 secret, clandestine, concealed, hidden, covert, undercover, surreptitious, stealthy, private: The secret service has a worldwide underground network of agents. 3 alternative, radical, experimental, avant-garde, nonconformist, revolutionary: Some underground newspapers that sprang up in the 1960s are still being published. --n. 4 tube, metro, underground railway, US subway: Two more stops on the underground and we'll be there. 5 resistance, partisans or partizans, freedom fighters, (in France) Maquis, insurgents, seditionaries or seditionists, insurrectionists, guerrillas or guerillas, extremists, revolutionaries; fifth-columnists, fifth column, saboteurs, subversives: The underground helped the family to escape to England. The government blames the underground for the bombings.
undersized adj. under-size, little, short, small, petite, tiny, elfin, bantam, slight, mignon(ne); stunted, underdeveloped, runty, runtish, dwarfish, dwarfed, pygmy, squat; underweight, undeveloped: These cattle are a bit undersized for market.
understanding n. 1 agreement, contract, arrangement, bargain, covenant, concession, pact, compact, accord, treaty, concordat, entente, alliance, truce, armistice, reconciliation, settlement: They reached an understanding with respect to nuclear weapons. 2 discernment, sensitivity, sensitiveness, sympathy, empathy, perception, insight, good sense, intuition, enlightenment, percipience, sagacity, sageness, sapience, wisdom, Colloq savvy: Georgianna brings so much understanding to her treatment of the aged. 3 Usually, understanding of. comprehension or, awareness or grasp or control or idea or conception or knowledge or mastery (of), acquaintance or familiarity or intimacy or dexterity or skilfulness or deftness or adroitness or adeptness (with), competence or skill or expertness or know-how or proficiency or expertise (in), Colloq US fix (on), handle (on): I know no one with a better understanding of medieval Welsh. 4 reading, interpretation, opinion, judgement, estimation, notion, view, perception, apperception, apprehension: My understanding of what took place is at odds with yours. 5 intellect, intelligence, mind, brain, brainpower, sense, reason, reasoning power, wisdom, Colloq brains: I'm afraid that he lacks the understanding needed to cope with the subtleties of the situation.
understood adj. accepted, agreed, arranged, given, covenanted, settled, conceded: It was understood that we would be dining together that night. The terms of the agreement are now fully understood.
undertake v. 1 assume, take on or upon (oneself), accept, take or assume or bear the responsibility for, enter upon, begin, start, set about, embark on, tackle, try, attempt: Gates might be undertaking a bit too much, considering his condition. 2 promise, covenant, agree, contract, pledge, vow, swear, warrant, guarantee, bargain, commit (oneself), stipulate, engage: Is it not true that you undertook to complete the work in six months?
undertaking n. 1 enterprise, affair, business, project, task, effort, venture, work, feat: The scope of the undertaking was far beyond her capacity. 2 doing, performing, performance, realization, achievement: Giles's undertaking of the work makes me feel more confident. 3 promise, pledge, commitment, assurance, contract, agreement, vow, guarantee or guaranty, warranty: You gave an undertaking to complete the work by Friday.
underwrite v. 1 back (up), finance, support, invest in, subsidize, subvene, sponsor, uphold, approve, insure, guarantee, US subvene: The company has agreed to underwrite the development of your invention. 2 subscribe to, endorse or indorse, sign, countersign, consent to, agree to, confirm, accede to, sanction, ratify, approve, validate, Colloq OK or okay: The government underwrote the action one day, then denied knowledge of it the next.
undeveloped adj. embryonic, premature, immature, incipient, inchoate, potential, latent: His sense of beauty remained undeveloped till he visited Rome.
undisciplined adj. untrained, unschooled, unprepared, untutored, uneducated, untaught, unpractised, uncontrolled, disobedient, naughty, bad, wilful, wayward, unrestrained, erratic, unpredictable, unruly, wild: The sergeant has taken quite a few undisciplined recruits and knocked them into shape.
undisputed adj. unquestioned, unquestionable, beyond question, accepted, acknowledged, admitted, indisputable, indubitable, undoubted, certain, sure, unmistakable or unmistakeable, definite, explicit, clear, (self-)evident, obvious, uncontested, unchallenged, incontestable, irrefutable, incontrovertible, undeniable, conclusive: He proved once again that he is the undisputed heavyweight champion of the world.
undivided adj. 1 whole, entire, unbroken, uncut, intact, unseparated, complete, unsplit: The family lands remained undivided for generations. 2 undiverted, whole, entire, devoted, concentrated, full, complete, exclusive, undistracted: You have my undivided attention.
undoing n. 1 ruin, ruination, destruction, devastation, defeat, downfall, overthrow, fall, collapse, descent, debasement, degradation, abasement, mortification, humiliation, shame, disgrace: It is not easy to identify the factors that brought about the demagogue's undoing. 2 curse, misfortune, bane, affliction, trouble, blight: As the novelists would have it, a beautiful woman was his undoing.
undone adj. unaccomplished, uncompleted, incomplete, unfinished, omitted, neglected, left (out), skipped, missed, passed over, forgotten, unattended to: From this list of chores, how many are still undone?
unduly adv. 1 disproportionately, excessively, overly, unnecessarily, inordinately, unreasonably, irrationally, unjustifiably, improperly, inappropriately: He claimed that he was being unduly harassed by the police. 2 immoderately, lavishly, profusely, extravagantly: Don't be unduly generous in tipping our waiter - he did spill the soup in your lap.
unearthly adj. 1 supernatural, unnatural, preternatural, unworldly, other-worldly, psychic(al), extramundane, extraterrestrial, extrasensory, supersensory, out-of-(the)-body, asomatous, incorporeal, sublime, celestial, astral: They speculated about what unearthly experiences space travel might lead to. 2 weird, bizarre, macabre, nightmarish, uncanny, eerie, strange, ghostly, spectral, unreal, Literary eldritch, Colloq spooky, creepy: An unearthly creature appeared in a mist before her. 3 strange, odd, peculiar, unusual, abnormal, absurd, out of the ordinary, extraordinary, outrageous; unheard-of, unreasonable, Colloq ungodly: The baby wakes up at the unearthly hour of three o'clock every morning.
unemployed adj. out of work, jobless, idle, laid off, out of a job, out of work, unoccupied, inactive, Facetious resting, at liberty, at leisure, Brit redundant, Colloq Brit on the dole: He has been unemployed ever since he was made redundant.
unenviable adj. uncoveted, undesirable, unwished for, unattractive: He was given the unenviable task of informing the victim's family.
unflattering adj. 1 harsh, unsympathetic; realistic, stark, candid: Her hairstyle was unflattering and made her face look rather heavy. 2 uncomplimentary, insulting, unfavourable: Saying that I look just like my grandmother is quite unflattering.
unfold v. 1 open (out or up), spread (out), unfurl, stretch out, expand, uncoil, unwind, straighten out: Emerging from the pupa, it unfolds its wings and becomes a beautiful butterfly. 2 develop, evolve, happen, take place, occur, be divulged, be disclosed or revealed: What will unfold next in our little drama?
unfortunate adj. 1 unlucky, luckless; cursed, out of luck, unblessed, Colloq down on (one's) luck: She was unfortunate enough to have married early and divorced late. 2 poor, miserable, wretched, woebegone, pathetic, dismal, unhappy, forlorn, pitiable, doomed, ill-starred, star-crossed, ill-fated: These unfortunate refugees have nowhere to go if we refuse them asylum. 3 deplorable, terrible, awful, catastrophic, disastrous, calamitous, tragic, lamentable, regrettable, distressing, upsetting, disturbing, inauspicious, grievous, ruinous: It was an unfortunate decision, and led to many problems. The flood was a most unfortunate sequel to the earthquake.
ungodly adj. 1 wicked, sinful, impious, blasphemous, heretical, irreligious, iconoclastic, atheist(ic), anti-religious, sacrilegious, demonic, demoniac(al), diabolic(al), satanic, fiendish, hellish, infernal; depraved, godless, corrupt, immoral, evil, iniquitous, bad, villainous, heinous, flagitious, profane, vile: The crusaders believed that they had a duty to deliver Jerusalem from the ungodly heathens. 2 awful, outrageous, indecent, monstrous, nasty, dreadful, terrible, appalling, frightful, shocking, Colloq God-awful, unearthly, Brit beastly: Margot and I were subjected to another ungodly evening at the Dawsons'.
ungraceful adj. 1 awkward, clumsy, ungainly, lubberly, Colloq all thumbs, butter-fingered, Slang US and Canadian klutzy: People in the aerobics class are always ungraceful to start off with. 2 inelegant, graceless, coarse, crude, inartistic, vulgar, tasteless, unaesthetic, unrefined, barbarous, unlovely, ugly, unharmonious, unattractive, ill-proportioned, unsymmetric(al), asymmetric(al): Some regard the Albert Memorial as a paragon of ungraceful Victorian design.
ungrateful adj. unthankful, unappreciative, rude; selfish, heedless: That ungrateful wretch never thanked me for all my help.
unhappy adj. 1 sad, depressed, blue, dejected, melancholy, despondent, downcast, gloomy, downhearted, dispirited, heavy-hearted, long-faced, disconsolate, sorrowful, miserable, crestfallen, cheerless, forlorn, low-spirited, glum, distressed, tearful, Formal lachrymose, Colloq down, Slang US bummed out: Mary is very unhappy that John is to be away a whole month. 2 unlucky, unfortunate, unpropitious, inauspicious, unfavourable, luckless, hapless, cursed, wretched, ill-omened, ill-fated, ill-starred, star-crossed, jinxed, disastrous: Let me tell you how this unhappy state of affairs came about. 3 infelicitous, unfitting, inappropriate, unsuitable, unsuited, wrong, inexpedient, ill-advised, poor, unfortunate: Vivian was an unhappy choice as his successor.
unheard-of adj. 1 unknown, unfamiliar, obscure, unidentified, nameless, unsung: She is busy trying to promote some unheard-of sculptor. 2 unimaginable, undreamed of or undreamt of, unprecedented, unimagined, unbelievable, inconceivable, unusual: They took the unheard-of step of requiring that refunds be paid. Her starting salary is an unheard-of 100,000. 3 shocking, offensive, outrageous, disgraceful, extreme, unthinkable, outlandish: The victims were subjected to unheard-of tortures.
unhesitating adj. 1 swift, rapid, quick, immediate, instantaneous, prompt, ready, unhesitant: The response was an unhesitating 'No!' 2 unfaltering, unwavering, wholehearted, unqualified, unswerving, undeviating, staunch, steadfast, implicit, resolute: We appreciate your unhesitating devotion to duty.
unidentified adj. nameless, anonymous, unknown, unmarked, unnamed, unknown, unfamiliar, unrecognized, mysterious: The police found the body of a unidentified woman in the park.
uniformity n. 1 regularity, similarity, sameness, homogeneity, consistency, symmetry, evenness, invariability, unchangeability, similitude, conformity, agreement, concord, accord, harmoniousness; harmony, concordance, accordance, conformance, correspondence: One can easily see the lack of uniformity even in what is supposed to be a classless society. 2 dullness, monotony, drabness, sameness, tedium, featurelessness, flatness, invariability, lack of variety, changelessness: After a few days, the uniformity of the routine began to get on my nerves.
unimpeded adj. unblocked, unchecked, free, unconstrained, unrestrained, unhindered, unhampered, unencumbered, open, untrammelled, unrestricted: They insist on having unimpeded access to the files.
uninformed adj. ignorant, nescient, unknowledgeable, unenlightened, uneducated, unschooled, untutored, untaught, uninstructed, unaware, incognizant: The problem is not that they are stupid, merely uninformed and misinformed.
uninhibited adj. wild, unchecked, unbridled, uncurbed, intemperate, boisterous, unrepressed, unconstrained, unrestrained, uncontrolled, unselfconscious, unreserved, relaxed, casual, easygoing, free (and easy), open, frank, candid, outspoken, Colloq upfront: Their behaviour at the party was totally uninhibited. I will tell you what I think only if I can be totally uninhibited about it.
union n. 1 uniting, unity, combining, combination, joining, junction, conjoining, conjunction, allying, alliance, associating, association, coalition, amalgamating, amalgamation, fusing, fusion, marrying, marriage, confederating, confederation, confederacy, synthesizing, synthesis, mixing, mixture, federation, togetherness: Monarchies favour the union of Church and State. 2 alliance, association, organization, society, circle, fraternity, club, fellowship, team, ring, gang, syndicate, coalition, party, confederation, confederacy, federation, Bund, league, consortium, bloc, cartel, trust: The countries formed a union to control their joint economies. 3 joint, seam, splice, junction, conjunction, graft, weld; coupling: The union between the two pieces may be stronger than the material itself. 4 agreement, accord, harmony, harmoniousness, congruity, coherence, compatibility, unanimity, unity: The union of the various elements in the painting was skilfully effected.
unison n. in unison (with). in harmony, together, corresponding exactly, in (perfect) accord, consonant, harmonious: Why is his singing never in unison with ours? We all responded in unison with a rousing 'No!'
unite v. 1 combine, unify, merge, coalesce, amalgamate, mix, mingle, commingle, intermix, blend, consolidate, fuse: The splinter parties have united to form a coalition. 2 join (forces), unify, wed, marry, link, connect, merge: The two families are united by marriage. 3 bond, fuse or weld or solder or glue or stick or tie or bind or fasten or fix or fit (together): Unite these pieces and the job is done.
unity n. 1 consistency, unanimity, constancy, uniformity, sameness, consensus, agreement, concord, concordance, accord, solidarity, compatibility, concurrence, continuity, consentaneousness, rapport, sympathy, like-mindedness: All members of the association enjoy a unity of purpose. 2 oneness, singularity, integrity, singleness, congruity, uniformity, congruousness, homogeneity, identity, sameness, resemblance, likeness, similarity, similitude: If there is little unity between your ideas and those of the organization, perhaps you should resign. 3 unification, uniting, combination: In unity is strength.
universally adv. in every case or instance, in all cases or instances, unexceptionally, without exception, uniformly, always, invariably: In those days, it was universally accepted that the earth was flat.
unkempt adj. dishevelled, uncombed, tousled, disarranged, ungroomed, wind-blown, untidy, disordered, mussed (-up), messy, messed-up, bedraggled, shaggy, scruffy, rumpled, slovenly, frowzy, blowzy, Archaic draggle-tailed, Colloq sloppy: Mother would refuse to allow us to the table if we were unkempt.
unknown adj. 1 unrecognized, unfamiliar, strange, unnamed, anonymous, nameless, unidentified; obscure, unheard-of, little-known, humble, undistinguished, unsung: Some unknown person left this package for you. Bill is in some unknown place for the weekend. An unknown poet won the competition. 2 unfamiliar, unexplored, uninvestigated, unresearched, unrevealed, mysterious, uncharted, unidentified, dark: We were now going into unknown territory. 3 unbeknownst, untold, unrevealed: Unknown to me, the thieves were at that moment breaking in through the kitchen window.
unlike adj. 1 different (from), dissimilar (to), unalike, distinct (from), opposite (from or to), contrasting or contrastive (with or to), separate (from), divergent (from), incompatible (with), distinguishable (from), far apart (from), far (from), distant (from), ill-matched (with), unequal (to), unequivalent (to): His notions of right and wrong are unlike those of other people. Although they're brothers, they look quite unlike each other. 2 atypical, uncharacteristic, untypical: It is unlike you to complain. --prep. 3 different from, differing from, in contradistinction to, in contrast with or to, dissimilar to, distinct from, opposite from or to, contrasting with or to, divergent from, incompatible with, distinguishable from, ill-matched with, unequal to, unequivalent to: Unlike you, I've been there and know what it's like.
unlimited adj. 1 unrestricted, unrestrained, limitless, unconstrained, unqualified, full, absolute, unconditional, far-reaching, unchecked, uncontrolled: He has unlimited authority to issue all the paper money he wishes. 2 limitless, boundless, endless, vast, unbounded, immense, immeasurable, measureless, numberless, innumerable, inexhaustible, interminable, never-ending, infinite, myriad, extensive,: As the wealthiest woman in the world, she has unlimited resources to do as she pleases. unload v. empty, dump, unpack, offload, discharge; disburden, unburden: We unloaded the cargo at Sulawesi. The camels must be unloaded every night.
unmentionable adj. 1 unspeakable, unutterable, ineffable, taboo, scandalous, forbidden, interdicted; inexpressible: I will not have Karen or her unmentionable boyfriend in this house again! 2 disgraceful, indecent, immodest, shameful, shocking, appalling, dishonourable, indescribable, obscene, filthy: In carnivals, geeks do unmentionable things with live chickens. --n. 3 unmentionables. underclothes, underclothing, underwear, undergarments, lingerie, Archaic small-clothes, Colloq underthings, undies, Brit smalls, US skivvies: The woman next door insists on hanging out her unmentionables in full view of the whole street.
unmitigated adj. undiluted, unalloyed, unmixed, untempered, unmoderated, unmodified, unabated, unlessened, undiminished, unreduced, unrelieved, oppressive, unalleviated, unmollified, unsoftened, relentless, unqualified, out-and-out, thorough, thoroughgoing, outright, downright, categorical, absolute, immoderate, sheer, complete, consummate, total, perfect, true, pure, arrant, utter, plain: That man is an unmitigated bore. The project was an unmitigated disaster.
unnatural adj. 1 Derogatory abnormal, perverse, perverted, monstrous, unusual, peculiar, strange, aberrant, improper, unseemly; Slang kinky , Chiefly Brit bent: There was a scandal when the senator was found to have engaged in some unnatural act. 2 sodomitic(al), bestial, tribadic, tribadistic: They still coyly referred to homosexual activities as 'unnatural acts'. 3 uncharacteristic, out of character, odd, peculiar, strange, unexpected, abnormal, unusual: Isn't it unnatural for someone who has won the sweepstakes to look so unhappy? 4 laboured, forced, stilted, stiff, restrained, artificial, false, insincere, feigned, contrived, affected, mannered, self-conscious, theatrical, stagy: She has an irritating, unnatural laugh. 5 outlandish, weird, uncanny, strange, odd, unaccountable, supernatural, preternatural, queer, grotesque, bizarre, extraordinary, eccentric, freakish: Let me tell you about the unnatural events that took place in that house.
unnerve v. upset, agitate, perturb, ruffle, fluster, rattle, discomfit, unsettle, disconcert, dismay, intimidate, stun, stupefy, Colloq shake (up), faze: Peter drove home slowly: the accident he had seen had unnerved him.
unobtrusive adj. inconspicuous, unostentatious, low-key, retiring, modest, self-effacing, unpresuming, unpretentious, unassuming, quiet, humble, unaggressive, unassertive, non-assertive, subdued, reserved, reticent, suppressed: Agatha may seem unobtrusive, but she's a tigress when aroused.
unopened adj. closed, shut: The book lay, unopened, on the bedside table.
unpaid adj. 1 payable, outstanding, owed, owing, due, unsettled: In the end he absconded, leaving a pile of unpaid bills. 2 unsalaried, voluntary, volunteer, honorary, US dollar-a-year: On retirement, she took an unpaid job with Oxfam.
unparalleled adj. unequalled, incomparable, matchless, peerless, unrivalled, unmatched, inimitable, unexcelled, superior, supreme, superlative, unsurpassed, unusual, special, singular, rare, unique, exceptional, consummate: In our experience, the food and service aboard the Normandie were unparalleled.
unpopular adj. out of favour, in bad odour, unliked, disliked, shunned, avoided, snubbed, ignored, unsought after, unaccepted, unwanted, rejected, unwelcome, undesirable; unloved, friendless: New taxes are always unpopular. James had always been an unpopular boy at school.
unpremeditated adj. unprepared, unplanned, unarranged, uncontrived, unstudied, coincidental, spontaneous, spur-of-the-moment, last-minute, impromptu, extemporaneous or extemporary, extempore, ad lib, offhand, casual, impulsive, natural, involuntary, automatic, unconscious, Colloq off the cuff: I had no inkling of her plans, so my running into her was entirely unpremeditated. Her immediate, unpremeditated reaction was to run away.
unprofessional adj. 1 unbecoming, improper, unethical, unprincipled, unseemly, undignified, unfitting, unbefitting, unworthy, unscholarly, negligent, lax: The Medical Association is quick to act against doctors whose conduct might be judged unprofessional. 2 amateurish, amateur, inexpert, inexperienced, untrained, untutored, unschooled, incompetent, unskilled, unskilful, inferior, second-rate, inefficient, poor, shoddy, low-quality, sloppy: It was an astonishingly unprofessional way to audit accounts. 3 non-technical, unspecialized, non-specialist, lay, everyday, ordinary, plain (English), understandable: What does all that gobbledegook mean when translated into unprofessional language?
unpromising adj. inauspicious, unpropitious, unfavourable, gloomy, ominous, adverse, portentous, baleful, hopeless: The forecast for the economy looked unpromising yesterday but has suddenly brightened.
unquenchable adj. insatiable, unslakeable or unslakable, unsatisfiable; inextinguishable, unsuppressible, irrepressible, indestructible: She had an unquenchable thirst for knowledge. Those principles have kindled an unquenchable fire in the hearts of the oppressed.
unreal adj. 1 imaginary, fantastic, chimeric(al), fanciful, fancied, illusory, make-believe, phantasmagoric(al), phantasmal, spectral, figmental, unrealistic, non-existent: Fear made the whole scene unreal to Martha. 2 theoretical, hypothetical, mythical, imaginary, made-up, fictitious, make-believe, fanciful: Although the example is unreal, it will serve its purpose in my argument. 3 artificial, synthetic, synthesized, mock, false, fake(d), counterfeit, fraudulent, dummy, spurious, falsified, pretend(ed), sham, pseudo, make-believe: The countryside looked a little unreal, too luxuriant and too sculptured.
unreasonable adj. 1 irrational, illogical, unthinking, absurd, foolish, senseless, nonsensical, mindless, brainless, thoughtless, silly, mad, crazy, insane, idiotic, moronic, imbecilic, stupid, fatuous, ridiculous, ludicrous, laughable, preposterous, far-fetched, short-sighted, unperceptive, unperceiving, undiscerning, myopic, blind: Some people have an unreasonable aversion to anything scientific. Is it unreasonable to expect you to spend a little time with your mother? 2 excessive, outrageous, exorbitant, extravagant, immoderate, extortionate, inordinate, unconscionable, unjust, unwarranted, inequitable, unfair, unequal, improper, unjustified, unjustifiable, uncalled-for: The new tax puts an unreasonable demand on those with lower incomes. 3 inappropriate, unapt or inapt, unsuitable, unbefitting, impractical, unrealistic: His conduct was quite unreasonable for a man of the cloth.
unrelated adj. independent, separate, distinct, different, dissimilar, incompatible, inappropriate, foreign, alien, unassociated, unaffiliated, unconnected, uncoupled, unlinked, unallied, uncoordinated: Why raise a totally unrelated issue?
unrepentant adj. unrepenting, unremorseful, impenitent, unapologetic, unregretful, unashamed, unembarrassed, unselfconscious, remorseless, unreformed, unrehabilitated, unregenerate, recidivist or recidivistic or recidivous: They were quite unrepentant, though they had seen for themselves the harm they had done.
unrest n. disquiet, uneasiness, distress, anxiety, anxiousness, nervousness, anguish, unease, worry, concern, agitation, turmoil, disturbance, trouble, strife, agony: The proximity of the huge army on our borders caused considerable unrest among the populace.
unsatisfactory adj. insufficient, inadequate, inferior, poor, unacceptable, displeasing, disappointing, unworthy, inappropriate, deficient, weak, wanting, lacking, unsuitable, imperfect, flawed, defective, faulty: The report was unsatisfactory in that it failed to meet the committee's demands. Why put up with unsatisfactory workmanship?
unscathed adj. unharmed, unhurt, uninjured, unmarked, untouched, undamaged, unscarred, unscratched, safe and sound, in one piece, as new, Archaic scatheless, Colloq like new: Miraculously, he came out of the battle unscathed.
unseasonable adj. unsuitable, inopportune, inappropriate, untimely, ill-timed, inexpedient: Unseasonable frosts in April caused severe damage to the flower buds.
unselfish adj. generous, charitable, open-handed, ungrudging, unstinting, unsparing, giving, magnanimous, philanthropic, humanitarian, free, liberal, altruistic, selfless, self-sacrificing: We were all greatly impressed by her unselfish concern for the well-being of her colleagues.
unsettling adj. unnerving, upsetting, disturbing, perturbing, discomfiting, disconcerting: Sorry for being a wet blanket, but I have had some unsettling news from home.
unsocial adj. unsociable, unfriendly, cool, cold, chilly, aloof, uncongenial, unamiable, unforthcoming, standoffish, inhospitable, withdrawn, reserved, solitary, retiring, distant, detached, reclusive, hermitic(al), eremitic(al), anchoritic or anchoretic; antisocial, misanthropic, hostile: Erwin, who prefers to be alone, is definitely unsocial. Donna, who despises other people, is unsocial for different reasons.
unsophisticated adj. 1 nave, inexperienced, simple, childlike, unworldly, innocent, ingenuous, artless, guileless: Is the unsophisticated consumer sufficiently protected against unscrupulous traders? 2 simple, plain, uncomplicated, undetailed, uninvolved, unrefined: The computers of twenty years ago were unsophisticated compared with those of today.
unspoiled adj. unspoilt, unsullied, pristine, virgin, whole, untainted, unstained, immaculate, uncorrupted, unpolluted, spotless, stainless: The house has been preserved in its original condition, unspoiled by modern additions.
unsuccessful adj. 1 unfortunate, unavailing, vain, abortive, useless, bootless, fruitless, unfruitful, unproductive, ineffective, ineffectual, inefficacious, worthless, unprofitable, sterile: We made an unsuccessful attempt to regain control of the company. 2 unlucky, hapless, unfortunate, luckless, defeated, beaten, jinxed, cursed, foiled, frustrated, balked: Trevor complained that he had been unsuccessful in business all his life.
unsuspecting adj. unsuspicious, unwary, unknowing, ignorant, unconscious, gullible, credulous, nave, ingenuous, innocent, trusting; unaware, off guard: Martin became an unsuspecting dupe in Lambert's plot to embezzle money from the bank.
untamed adj. undomesticated, wild, unbroken, unsubdued, uncontrollable, savage, fierce, feral, ferocious: In the story, the wolf boy behaves like an untamed beast.
untenable adj. insupportable or unsupportable, indefensible, unsustainable, unmaintainable, unjustified, unjustifiable, baseless, groundless, unfounded, flawed, faulty, weak, illogical, specious, implausible, unreasonable, unsound: It is beyond me why he holds so tenaciously to such untenable views.
unthinking adj. 1 thoughtless, mindless, undiscriminating, unconsidered, unwitting, unreflecting, unthoughtful, irrational, unreasonable, illogical, unperceptive, unperceiving, undiscerning, witless, brainless, foolish, senseless, nonsensical, rash, stupid, silly, mad, crazy, insane, idiotic, moronic, imbecilic, hasty, short-sighted: It was unthinking of me to ask her mother to go out to dinner with us. 2 inconsiderate, impolite, tactless, rude, thoughtless, undiplomatic, discourteous, uncivil, imprudent, unwise, indiscreet, neglectful: On the other hand, it would have been unthinking of me not to ask her mother.
untiring adj. unflagging, determined, indefatigable, dogged, persevering, perseverant, tireless, unwearying, unwearied, dogged, dedicated, unfailing, unfaltering, steady: Kim has always been an untiring perfectionist.
untoward adj. 1 adverse, unfavourable, unpropitious, discouraging, inopportune, unpromising, bleak, inauspicious, bad, unfortunate: The rainstorm created untoward conditions, causing the river to rise dangerously. 2 unbecoming, unfitting, awkward, inappropriate, unapt, unsuitable, improper, impolite, rude, boorish, ungentlemanly, unladylike, indecorous, indelicate, unwarranted, uncalled-for, unrefined, unseemly, unwise, imprudent, undiplomatic, tactless, untactful, ill-conceived, silly, foolish, stupid, ill-timed, vexatious, vexing, irritating, annoying: Charles made some untoward remark about the size of Sandra's feet.
untrue adj. 1 unfaithful, faithless, disloyal, fickle, capricious, undependable, unreliable, dishonourable, untrustworthy, false, hypocritical, dishonest, insincere, two-faced, duplicitous, devious, deceitful, treacherous, perfidious: Only when I saw her with Henry did I realize that Pauline had been untrue to me. 2 wrong, false, inaccurate, incorrect, erroneous, misleading, mistaken, distorted: What you said about Pauline was simply untrue. 3 inexact, non-standard, substandard, imprecise, imperfect: How unfortunate for legend had William Tell's aim been untrue!
unusual adj. uncommon, exceptional, atypical, untypical, different, unexpected, singular, out of the ordinary, extraordinary, odd, peculiar, curious, bizarre, strange, queer, remarkable, unique, freakish, unprecedented, unconventional, unorthodox, Slang off-the-wall: It takes an unusual person to be as charitable as Jean. Don't you agree that an egg-laying mammal is a bit unusual?
unveil v. reveal, expose, uncover, lay bare or open, bare, bring to light: They will unveil a rival bid at tomorrow's meeting. Only after William died did Cynthia unveil the truth about his double life.
unwary adj. heedless, careless, hasty, incautious, unguarded, imprudent, rash, foolhardy, reckless, thoughtless, indiscreet, unthinking, mindless, unwise: Many perils await the unwary traveller. It was unwary of you not to lock the doors and windows.
unwelcome adj. 1 uninvited, unsought for, unwished for, undesired, undesirable, displeasing, unpleasing, distasteful, unpleasant: My day was further ruined by the unwelcome arrival of all those bills. 2 unwanted, rejected, unaccepted, excluded; persona non grata, anathema: Following that episode, Curshaw was made to feel unwelcome at the club.
unwieldy adj. awkward, clumsy, bulky, oversized, cumbersome, ungainly, unmanageable, unhandy, unmanoeuvrable: The huge oil tankers, though economical, often proved unwieldy in the ports they visited.
unworthy adj. 1 unequal, meritless, unmerited, substandard, inferior, second-rate, menial, puny, petty, paltry, unprofessional, mediocre, despicable, contemptible, dishonourable, ignoble, disreputable, discreditable, unqualified, ineligible, unfit, undeserving: I consider Patrick an unworthy opponent. 2 unworthy of. unbecoming to, inappropriate to, unsuitable for, unfit for, out of character for, inconsistent with or for, out of place with or for, incongruous with or for: That sort of petty haggling is unworthy of your position and of you. upbeat adj. positive, optimistic, sanguine, favourable, cheerful, encouraging, heartening, buoyant, light-hearted: Christopher has a very upbeat attitude towards life despite his age.
upbringing n. rearing, raising, training, education, cultivation, nurture, breeding: The way one behaves through life is really a matter of upbringing.
uphold v. support, maintain, sustain, preserve, hold up, defend, protect, advocate, promote, espouse, embrace, endorse, back, champion, stand by: All demagogues claim to uphold democratic principles.
upper adj. 1 higher (up), loftier, topmost, more elevated, uppermost: Air is less dense in the upper parts of the atmosphere. Our flat is on an upper floor. Her best notes are sung in the upper register. 2 higher, upland, more elevated; (more) northerly, northern: We visited the cataracts on the upper reaches of the Nile. We spent the holiday in upper Canada. 3 later, more recent: These strata were laid down in the Upper Cretaceous period. 4 upper case. capital letter(s), capital(s), majuscule (letters or characters): The heading ought to be in upper case. 5 upper crust. upper class, lite, aristocrats, nobles, blue bloods, wealthy, US Four Hundred: Gregory thinks of himself as a member of the upper crust and won't associate with us. 6 upper hand. advantage, control, authority, power, sway, superiority, supremacy, command, dominance, ascendancy, Colloq edge: Purvis kowtows to whoever has the upper hand. --n. 7 on (one's) uppers. poor, indigent, destitute, poverty-stricken, Colloq broke: Stanley has been on his uppers since losing his job.
uppermost adj. 1 highest, topmost, loftiest, highest, top: These curious animals live in the uppermost branches of the trees. 2 foremost, first, most important or prominent or influential or telling, principal, paramount, pre-eminent, predominant: Uppermost in my mind is the safety of the children.
upright adj. 1 erect, perpendicular, vertical, on end, straight up and down, plumb, stand-up, standing up, Brit upstanding: Few upright columns of the Greek temple remained. 2 moral, principled, high-minded, ethical, virtuous, upstanding, straight, righteous, straightforward, honourable, honest, just, trustworthy, unimpeachable, uncorrupt(ed), incorruptible, decent, good: David had long been an upright member of the church council. --n. 3 post, pole, column, vertical, perpendicular: We need another upright to support the floor over here. --adv. 4 perpendicularly, vertically, upward(s), straight up (and down): The javelin was sticking upright out of the ground. 5 right side up: Miraculously, the platter with the roast on it landed upright on the floor.
uproar n. clamour, hubbub, disturbance, commotion, hullabaloo, brouhaha, din, racket, pandemonium, tumult, turmoil, pother, outcry, outburst, bedlam, agitation, frenzy, broil, rumpus, fuss; affray, fracas, brawl; Colloq hoo-ha, to-do, US hoop-la, Brit kerfuffle or carfuffle or kurfuffle: The announcement of the new taxes caused a nation-wide uproar.
uproot v. 1 transfer, transplant, move, displace; exile, banish: Finney has been uprooted five times in his career with the firm. 2 deracinate, extirpate, root out, dig out, pluck out, tear out; destroy, demolish, ruin, eradicate, annihilate, kill, ruin, devastate, ravage: Thousands of trees were uprooted by the hurricane.
upshot n. result, end (result), outcome, ending, conclusion, termination, effect, after-effect, fallout, wake, backwash, repercussion, after-clap, feedback, resolution, culmination, denouement or dnouement, issue, Colloq pay-off, US wrap-up: The upshot of the nasty business was that Bowles was sent to prison for life.
uptake n. comprehension, understanding, apprehension, grasp, perception, insight, perspicaciousness, perspicacity, perceptiveness, sensitivity: Billie was very quick on the uptake, and knew immediately what the man was after.
urgency n. imperativeness, pressure, stress, extremity, importance, seriousness, importunity, necessity, need, insistence, exigency, emergency: She was told to ring back as a matter of some urgency.
urinate v. pass or make water, Technical micturate; Babytalk (make a) wee, (go) wee-wee, (have a or US also take a) pee, (make) pee-pee, do number one, tinkle, piddle; Euphemistic go to the men's or ladies' (room), go to the lavatory, excuse (oneself), wash (one's) hands, go to the bathroom, go to the powder-room; Mincing go to the little boys' or girls' room; Colloq Brit spend a penny, go to the loo, Slang (take or have a) piss, Brit have a or go for a slash: One symptom of cystitis is pain when urinating.usage n. 1 use, custom, habit, practice, routine, convention, form, tradition: British usage reflects decreasing use of the subjunctive mood. 2 treatment, use, management, handling, operation, manipulation: It would appear that the car has been subjected to some rough usage.
used adj. 1 second-hand, cast-off, old, worn, Euphemistic pre-owned, Colloq hand-me-down, Brit reach-me-down: You're better off buying a good used car, since new ones depreciate so quickly. 2 utilized, employed, occupied; in use: We slept in a rarely used room. 3 used to. accustomed to, habituated to, acclimatized or acclimated to, adapted to, hardened or toughened or inured to or against, tempered to, tolerant of; familiar or acquainted with: After all those years, Amanda was used to Bill's shouting.
usefulness n. utility, applicability, practicability, purpose, purposefulness, point, practicality, benefit, advantage, expediency, profit, profitability, value, gain, help, fruitfulness, effectiveness, worth: I never could see the usefulness of all the forms one has to fill in.
user n. 1 consumer, buyer, purchaser, owner; operator: Users of the equipment report excellent results. 2 alcohol or drug or narcotic addict: The police have been interviewing users in order to obtain more information about the dealers.
usual adj. same, customary, habitual, accustomed, familiar, well-known, common, everyday, established, traditional, set, time-honoured, old, conventional, workaday, stock, wonted, regular, ordinary, normal, expected, routine, typical, run-of-the-mill, stereotypic(al), hackneyed, trite, prosaic, worn out, shop-worn, predictable, unexceptional, unoriginal, unremarkable, unimaginative: The usual answer I get is 'Why?' I missed my usual train this morning. They still sing the usual drinking songs.
Utopia n. paradise, heaven, seventh heaven, (Garden of) Eden, bliss, cloud-cuckoo-land, Nephelococcygia, never-never land, Shangri-La, Cockaigne or Cockayne, heaven on earth, perfection: He dreams about a Utopia where everyone is rich and there are no taxes.
vacant adj. 1 empty, void, hollow, unoccupied, untenanted, uninhabited, abandoned, deserted: The house remained vacant all summer. 2 blank, expressionless, deadpan, empty, vacuous, dull, absent-minded, inane, uncomprehending, fatuous, unaware: After the accident, she would just sit, for hours on end, with a vacant look on her face. 3 unoccupied, free, unused, unutilized, spare, extra, idle, unfilled, unengaged, unspoken for: The doctor has a vacant hour tomorrow at ten and could see you then.
vade-mecum n. handbook, manual, ready reference, book, guide: She always had with her a vade-mecum on rare poisons.
vague adj. 1 indefinite, indistinct, imprecise, inexact, unclear, confused, unspecified or non-specified, general, generalized, unspecific or non-specific, inexplicit or unexplicit, ill-defined, hazy, fuzzy, ambiguous, obscure, amorphous; shapeless, blurred, blurry, filmy, dim, shadowy, veiled, bleary, foggy, misty, cloudy, clouded, hardly or barely distinguishable or discernible: I have only a vague recollection of our having met. She must have had a vague idea of your intentions. Leon could almost make out the vague shape of an approaching figure. 2 undetermined, indeterminate, unfixed, indefinite, inexact, unspecified or non-specified, unspecific or non-specific, ambiguous, doubtful, in doubt, uncertain, equivocal, ambiguous: For security reasons, her time of arrival was left vague. 3 veiled, concealed, hidden, shrouded, obscure, ill-defined, unspecific or non-specific, inexplicit or unexplicit, ambiguous: There had been a vague threat of kidnapping, which should not have been ignored. 4 subliminal, subconscious, indefinable, unexplained: I had a vague sensation of being followed. 5 indefinite, ambiguous, wishy-washy, undecided, indecisive, irresolute, vacillating, wavering, inconstant, unsettled, uncertain, nebulous, up in the air: Leonore is vague about her plans to run for re-election. 6 vacant, empty, blank, expressionless, empty, vacuous, dull; puzzled: By their vague expressions I could see they hadn't understood a word.
vain adj. 1 proud, conceited, haughty, arrogant, boastful, egotistical, cocky, self-important, vainglorious, narcissistic, Colloq big-headed, swell-headed, stuck-up, swollen-headed: They are so vain that they have mirrors in every room. 2 worthless, profitless, bootless, pointless, unsuccessful, empty, futile, useless, unavailing, unproductive, fruitless, ineffective, abortive: Peter sent Carol flowers every day in a vain attempt to win her back. 3 in vain. a vainly, futilely, unsuccessfully, fruitlessly, bootlessly: In vain, we sought the help of the police. b irreverently, blasphemously, disrespectfully, improperly: Despite his mother's admonitions, he continues to take the Lord's name in vain.
vanity n. 1 conceit, conceitedness, egotism, narcissism, arrogance, cockiness, self-importance, vainglory, haughtiness, pride, self-admiration, self-worship, Colloq swell-headedness, big-headedness: It is disgraceful what some people do to satisfy their vanity. 2 vainness, emptiness, hollowness, worthlessness, futility, unreality, bootlessness, pointlessness, uselessness, folly, vapidity, silliness, vacuousness, vacuity, foolishness, fatuity, frivolousness: The vanity of trying to complete the book in a year must be obvious by now.
vapour n. 1 mist, fog, steam, cloud, smoke, smog, exhalation: There arose from the bog a suffocating, miasmic vapour. 2 the vapours. morbidity, hypochondria, hysteria, nervousness, depression, rheuminess, Archaic distemper, Colloq the pip: Charlotte suffered an attack of the vapours and retired to her room.
variance n. 1 variation, difference, disparity, discrepancy, disagreement, deviation, inconsistency, divergence, incongruity: The monitor takes account of minute variance in blood pressure. 2 disagreement, misunderstanding, discord, difference (of opinion), dissension, contention, dispute, dissent, controversy, quarrel, conflict, argument, debate, lack of harmony, falling out, schism, rift: There has never been any variance between us about the disciplining of the children. 3 at variance. in dispute, in disagreement, quarrelling, in contention, in conflict: The workforce was at variance with management in the matter of day care.
variation n. 1 change, changing, alteration, altering, variety, varying, modification, modifying, difference, differing, diversification, diversity, diversifying, modulation, modulating, conversion, converting, permutation, permuting: We have to allow for variation in the intensity of the light. 2 variety, choice, novelty, diversity, departure (from the norm or usual), change of pace, divergence, variegation, deviation (from the norm): This restaurant offers considerable variation in its menu.
variegated adj. multicolour(ed), particolour(ed), varicoloured, many-coloured, motley, pied, piebald, brindled, mottled, polychrome, polychromatic; nacreous, changeant, opalescent, opaline: Plants with variegated foliage always add interest to a garden.
various adj. 1 different, a number of, a variety of, diversified, diverse, several, many, numerous, sundry, heterogeneous, miscellaneous, Literary divers: We are considering various offers for the painting. Catherine held various executive positions in the company. 2 different, distinct, individual: There are various ways of looking at the problem.
vast adj. infinite, unlimited, boundless, limitless, unbounded, interminable, endless, never-ending, inexhaustible, indeterminate, immeasurable, incalculable, measureless; immense, enormous, huge, tremendous, great, prodigious, stupendous, gigantic, massive, voluminous, capacious, colossal, monumental, mammoth, jumbo, elephantine, behemoth, Cyclopean, Brobdingnagian, titanic, Literary vasty, Colloq ginormous, humongous: It is difficult to comprehend the vast distances of space. There is a vast difference between the climates of California and the Midwest.
vehicle n. 1 conveyance: The police report that two vehicles were damaged in the crash. 2 means, channel, mechanism, carrier, conduit, agency, instrument: Water is the vehicle used in many sprays.
veiled adj. concealed, hidden, masked, obscure, unrevealed, covert, disguised, secret, sub rosa, subtle: There seemed to be a veiled threat in the way he said goodbye.
velocity n. speed, swiftness, rapidity, fleetness, quickness, briskness, alacrity, celerity, pace, rate of speed, miles per hour, mph, kilometres per hour, km/hr: Our velocity slowed as we neared the outer atmosphere.
vendetta n. (blood) feud, quarrel, dispute, conflict, rivalry, enmity, bitterness, hatred, ill will, bad blood: Fifty years after leaving Palermo, the vendetta between their families still persisted.
venerable adj. respectable, honourable, estimable, respected, honoured, esteemed, august, sedate, impressive, revered, reverenced, worshipped: Venerable old military men were called on for advice.
veneration n. respect, honour, esteem, reverence, deference, homage, devotion, worship, admiration, adoration, idolization, awe: Their veneration for their hero turned to contempt when his past was revealed.
vengeance n. 1 revenge, retaliation, retribution, requital, reprisal: Her vengeance for what he had done was to disinherit him. 2 with a vengeance. a violently, fiercely, ferociously, wildly, vehemently, furiously, forcefully: The wind blew with a vengeance all night. b energetically, to the fullest extent, to the utmost or the fullest or the limit, (with) no holds barred, enthusiastically, wholeheartedly: Give Richard a job to do and he goes at with a vengeance.
venom n. 1 poison, toxin: The snakes are 'milked' of their venom, which is collected for research in antitoxins and pharmaceuticals. 2 malice, maliciousness, malevolence, ill will, malignity, animosity, hate, hatred, hostility, antagonism, spite, spitefulness, spleen, rancour, bitterness, embitteredness, gall, poison, poisonousness, virulence: Vinnie was totally unprepared for the venom of the attack.
vent n. 1 opening, slit, slot, hole, aperture, air-hole, blow-hole, spiracle, orifice, outlet, inlet, funnel, flue, duct, passage; fumarole, fissure, pipe, mofette or moffette: The tepee has a vent at the peak to let the smoke of the fire escape. 2 give vent to. See 3, below. --v. 3 give vent to, express, verbalize, air, articulate, enunciate, declare, voice, announce, communicate, pronounce, proclaim, reveal, release, let go, let loose, allow to become known, make known, blurt out, make public, broadcast: Has Margie ever vented her true feelings about your work as a bomb disposal expert? Arnold vents his spleen on any unfortunate who will stand for it. 4 discharge, release, emit, eject, issue, empty, dump, expel, send or pour out or forth, throw out: It is illegal to vent poisonous fumes into the atmosphere.
venturesome adj. 1 daring, bold, intrepid, adventurous, courageous, plucky, adventuresome, audacious, fearless, doughty, brave, spirited: Henderson felt that he was being truly venturesome by sailing single-handed round the Isle of Wight. 2 risky, rash, reckless, sporting, game, daredevil: Taking one's family into the American West was truly a venturesome undertaking - even in the 20th century.
verbatim adj. 1 word-for-word, verbatim et literatim (= 'word-for-word and letter for letter'), literal, exact, precise, accurate, faithful, strict: This verbatim translation may be accurate but all the poetic expressiveness is lost. --adv. 2 word for word, verbatim et literatim, literally, exactly, precisely, accurately, faithfully, to the letter, strictly: To make certain there would be no misunderstanding, the speech was copied verbatim.
verge v. incline, lean, tend, extend, stretch, turn; approach, draw, move: The road verges southwards after the bridge.
veritable adj. real, true, virtual, genuine, actual, legitimate, authentic: Frank becomes a veritable monster if denied his daily doughnut.
versatile adj. 1 adaptable, resourceful, all-round, all-purpose, many-sided, multi-purpose, multifaceted, flexible, adjustable, protean, dexterous, handy, facile: Everett is a versatile painter who works in many media and styles. 2 variable, changeable, protean, changing, flexible, fluctuating: Any versatile organization should be able to accommodate staff losses.
version n. 1 form, variant, variation, type, model, style, kind, variety, manifestation, portrayal, adaptation, rendition, interpretation, adaptation, construct, construction, conception, idea: This is yet another modern designer's version of 1920s' and 1930s' art deco. 2 story, account, rendering, rendition, translation, interpretation, reading, understanding, view, side: Simon's version of what happened is completely distorted. vertex n. top, tip, extremity, zenith, meridian, apogee, peak, apex, acme, summit, pinnacle, crest, crown, cap, height(s): The building is surmounted by a pyramidal dome at the vertex of which is a statue of Osiris.
verve n. spirit, vivacity, vivaciousness, vitality, life, liveliness, animation, sparkle, energy, vigour, exuberance, briskness, brio, esprit, lan, dash, flair, panache, flourish, enthusiasm, zeal, zest, gusto, Colloq pizazz, zip, vim, get-up-and-go, zing, oomph: Helen's verve adds much to this production of Carmen .
vessel n. 1 container, receptacle, utensil, holder: Food was stored in vessels neatly arrayed around the sarcophagus. 2 craft, boat, ship, ark, Literary barque or US also bark: The vessel docked gently at the airlock of the space station.
vestigial adj. imperfect, undeveloped, underdeveloped, rudimentary, incomplete: Anatomists regard the coccyx in man and apes as a vestigial tail.
veteran n. 1 old hand, past master, old-timer, trouper, Colloq warhorse: Barlow was a veteran of twenty years' experience in the service. --adj. 2 experienced, practised, seasoned, mature, long-serving, battle-scarred: Did it never occur to this veteran politician that there are degrees of misconduct?
viable adj. sustainable, supportable, sensible, reasonable, practical, practicable, applicable, workable, feasible, possible: We have three days to come up with a viable plan for continuing the research project.
vibrate v. quiver, shiver, shudder, fluctuate, quake, shake, tremble, throb, pulsate, oscillate, pulse, reverberate, resonate, Brit judder: The house began to vibrate, the windows rattled, and the dishes danced off their shelves.
vice n. 1 immorality, corruption, evil, badness, depravity, degradation, degeneracy, iniquity, villainy, venality, evil-doing, wickedness, profligacy, sin, sinfulness, transgression: She described the town as a den of indecency, exhibitionism, and vice. 2 flaw, defect, fault, imperfection, blemish, shortcoming, failing, weakness, frailty, foible, infirmity, deficiency: Rejection without due consideration is a prejudicial vice of editors.
vicinity n. area, neighbourhood, locale, vicinage, environs, locality, precincts, purlieus, territory: All people living in the vicinity of the nuclear plant were tested for radiation poisoning.
vicissitude n. 1 change, mutation, alteration, changeability, mutability, variation, variability, variety, alternation, flux, fluctuation, unpredictability: Who seeks stability in life often encounters its vicissitude. 2 vicissitudes. fluctuations, changes, variations, contrasts, inconstancy, unpredictability, uncertainties, Colloq ups and downs, flukiness: His success is amazing in light of the vicissitudes he survived.
victimize v. 1 prey on, pursue, go after, pick on, bully, take advantage of, persecute, exploit, use: Increasingly, older people are being victimized by unscrupulous relatives. 2 cheat, swindle, bilk, defraud, dupe, hoodwink, deceive, gull, fool, trick, outwit, outsmart, outfox, Colloq snooker, flimflam, Slang suck or sucker in, screw, shaft, take (in), rook: The confidence team used the old Spanish handkerchief trick to victimize unsuspecting tourists.
victorious adj. triumphant, successful: Caesar was victorious over the Gauls.
vie v. compete, contend, struggle, strive: The brothers constantly vied for their father's affection.
viewpoint n. standpoint, (point of) view, attitude, angle, slant, position, stance, vantage point, perspective, frame of reference, way of thinking, context: From our viewpoint, widening the road only encourages speeding.
vigilant adj. watchful, alert, sharp, observant, guarded, circumspect, attentive, wakeful, cautious, careful, wary, chary, on one's guard, on the alert, on the lookout, eagle-eyed, hawk-eyed, Argus-eyed, on the qui vive, on one's toes, with one's eyes open, Colloq with one's eyes skinned or peeled: As long as we remain vigilant, they will never be able to take us by surprise.
vigorously adv. energetically, actively, vivaciously, dynamically, briskly, spiritedly, robustly, strongly, hardily, heartily, lustily, stalwartly, eagerly, with might and main, with a vengeance, strenuously, Colloq like mad, like crazy, hammer and tongs: It may not be good for you to exercise vigorously every day.
vile adj. 1 base, abject, contemptible, debased, degenerate, depraved, bad, iniquitous, execrable, atrocious, sordid, immoral, amoral, wicked, evil, sinful, hellish, fiendish, ignoble, revolting, despicable, horrid, horrible, dreadful, terrible, corrupt, mean, wretched, miserable, degrading, ignominious, disgraceful, shameful, shameless: In every age, the vilest specimens of human nature are to be found among demagogues. 2 disgusting, nasty, sickening, nauseous, nauseating, foul, loathsome, offensive, noxious, repulsive, repellent, repugnant: It is, indeed, a vile disease, but at least it is not contagious. She had prepared some vile cocktail that I refused to drink.
villain n. wretch, evil-doer, criminal, miscreant, blackguard, rogue, rascal, cad, scallywag or scalawag, malefactor, scoundrel, dog, cur, viper, reptile, snake in the grass, rat, Archaic rapscallion, Literary knave, caitiff, Colloq Brit bounder, blighter, Slang bastard, son of a bitch, Brit rotter, US SOB or sob (= 'son of a bitch'): The villain of the film is a smooth-talking charmer who swindles old ladies out of their savings.
vindicate v. 1 clear, exonerate, absolve, acquit, exculpate, excuse: She was vindicated of any complicity in the affair. 2 justify, support, uphold, prove: Subsequent events vindicated his actions.
vintage n. 1 year, crop, harvest, origin, generation: Which vintage is the better for Bordeaux, 1949 or 1954? --adj. 2 quality, choice, superior, better, good, select, best, classic; aged, seasoned, mature(d), mellow(ed): Mark has become an expert in vintage wines. 3 antiquated, old-fashioned, old-fogyish or old-fogeyish, antique, bygone, old-time, collector or collector's, Colloq over the hill: Claud used to drive his vintage car to work every day.
violation n. 1 infringement, breach, disregard, disobedience, contravention, abuse; ignoring, infringing, breaching, disregarding, disobeying, contravening, abusing, violating: Parking here is a violation of the law. Violation of the rules will be dealt with summarily. 2 profanation, profaning, sacrilege, desecration, desecrating, defilement, defiling, degradation, degrading, dishonour, dishonouring, debasement, debasing, violating: The authorities take a serious view of the violation of a place of worship or a cemetery. 3 rape, ravishment, molestation, attack, outrage, assault, violating: The defendant is charged with the violation of three women.
violent adj. 1 wild, physical, destructive, vehement, brutal, brutish, beastly, nasty, cruel, mean, barbarous, inhuman, savage, fierce, ferocious, furious, frenzied, uncontrollable, untamed, ungovernable, raging, raving, irrational, insane, crazed, Colloq fit to be tied: Tony turned into a violent maniac when he suspected her of seeing another man. 2 harmful, injurious, damaging, detrimental, destructive, deleterious, catastrophic, cataclysmic, ruinous, devastating: This was the most violent earthquake to hit Mexico in recorded history. 3 acute, serious, severe, extreme, harsh, trenchant, virulent, intense, energetic, forceful, vehement, passionate, impetuous,tempestuous: The proceedings were interrupted by an outburst of violent abuse from the public gallery.
virtually adv. essentially, effectively, practically, almost, to all intents and purposes, for all practical purposes, more or less, nearly, as good as, substantially, in effect, in essence: He had virtually won the Brisbane-London sailing race when he passed the Lizard, but then he hit a rock.
virtuosity n. (technical) skill, technique, ability, expertise, mastery, excellence, brilliance, craftsmanship, craft, flair, dash, lan, clat, panache, pyrotechnics, showmanship, show, staginess, Colloq razzle-dazzle: The concerto was performed with signal virtuosity but little imagination or understanding.
virulence n. 1 virulency, poisonousness, venomousness, toxicity, noxiousness, deadliness, perniciousness, injuriousness, destructiveness, malignity, malignancy, violence, balefulness: The virulence of his affliction was not recognized till it was too late. 2 virulency, acrimony, acrimoniousness, bitterness, acerbity, rancour, spleen, poison, poisonousness, venom, venomousness, malignity, malevolence, maliciousness, malice, spite, hostility, resentment, antagonism, hatred: We were taken aback by the virulence of the priest's attack on Miss Thompson's morals.
visible adj. 1 seeable, perceivable, perceptible, discernible, detectable, discoverable, noticeable, unmistakable or unmistakeable, clear, obvious, observable; visual: The visible part of the energy spectrum is relatively small. The entrance holes to their burrows were clearly visible. 2 obvious, conspicuous, evident, apparent, prominent, manifest, distinct, patent, well-defined, identifiable: The consequences of the Act of Union of 1707 are still visible in Scotland today.
visionary adj. 1 dreamy, speculative, unpractical, impractical, fanciful, imaginary, unrealistic, unreal, romantic, idealistic, unworkable, Utopian: It is a pity that none of MacKenzie's visionary plans ever came to pass. --n. 2 dreamer, idealist, romantic, fantast, wishful thinker, Don Quixote: The world needs more visionaries like MacKenzie.
visitation n. 1 staying, calling, visiting, sojourning, stopping (over): The father has visitation rights to his children on weekends. 2 affliction, ordeal, trial, punishment, disaster, catastrophe, cataclysm, calamity, tragedy, curse, scourge, blight, plague, pestilence: In the story, the tyrant succumbed finally to a visitation from the Almighty.
vital adj. 1 imperative, essential, necessary, needed, requisite, required, indispensable, mandatory, compulsory, cardinal, fundamental, basic, critical, crucial, central, pivotal: Air and water are vital for the existence of most known organisms. 2 important, key, central, critical, crucial, life-and-death or life-or-death, pivotal, paramount, main: In an emergency, the captain must make the vital decision whether to abandon ship. This is a matter of vital concern for us all. 3 lively, full of life, vivacious, spirited, vigorous, dynamic, alive, animated, brisk, energetic: We have lost a vital member of the community. She took a vital interest in community affairs. 4 invigorating, quickening, life-giving, animating, vitalizing, reviving, vivifying, enlivening, rejuvenating: I could feel the vital energies returning to my limbs.
vitalize v. stimulate, activate, arouse, vivify, animate, awaken, inspirit, invigorate, enliven, inspire, revive, rejuvenate, innervate, energize, fortify, reinvigorate, renew, refresh, charge (up): The tonic vitalized him to the point where he felt young again.
vituperate v. berate, rate, reproach, revile, vilify, execrate, abuse, denounce, decry, deprecate, disparage, devalue, diminish, put down, run down, devaluate, depreciate, blame, inculpate, censure, find fault with, attack, assail, castigate, scold, reprimand, upbraid, rebuke, chide, chasten: From the pulpit he continued to vituperate the vices of the court.
vivacious adj. lively, spirited, sprightly, energetic, animated, brisk, ebullient, effervescent, bubbly, gay, cheerful, happy, blithe, jaunty, light-hearted, sunny, merry, high-spirited, buoyant, chipper, Colloq up, peppy, full of pep, full of beans, zippy: Had he not gone on the cruise, Michael would never have met the vivacious redhead who became his bride.
vocation n. calling, trade, mtier, business, profession, occupation, career, employment, job, pursuit, life's-work, life-work, line (of work), Slang bag, thing: I left university with no particular vocation in mind.
voice n. 1 speech, utterance, articulation, words, expression: Keith found it difficult to give voice to his innermost thoughts. 2 share, part, vote, participation, say, decision, option, turn, chance: As a junior member of the board, Nicholas had no voice in major decisions. 3 spokesman, spokeswoman, spokesperson, representative, agent, agency, instrument; organ, medium, vehicle, forum, publication: Throughout his time in government, Logan had served as the voice of the miners. The Clarion views itself as the voice of all the people, though it actually represents only a few. --v. 4 express, utter, articulate, enunciate, present, verbalize, put into words, give utterance or voice or expression or vent to, communicate, convey, declare, assert, make known, reveal, disclose, raise, bring up, air: I must voice my misgivings about the step you are planning to take.
volatile adj. 1 vaporizing, evaporable, evaporative: A volatile solvent, which evaporates quickly, is the vehicle for thermosetting plastics. 2 changeable, fickle, flighty, inconstant, erratic, restless, unstable, variable, mercurial, capricious: She was so volatile that one could never predict what she would do next. 3 explosive, hair-trigger, sensitive, charged, eruptive, tense, tension-ridden: Be careful of Christine's volatile temper.
volley n. 1 salvo, bombardment, barrage, cannonade, fusillade, discharge, hail, shower: A volley of shot struck the tower, which collapsed. 2 outpouring, torrent, flood, deluge, inundation, burst, storm, outbreak: The cracks of the muleteer's whip were accompanied by a volley of abuse. 3 give and take, to-and-fro, interaction, reciprocity, exchange, volleying, crossfire, badinage, bantering: Samuel enjoyed the volley of haggling that accompanied every sale.
volume n. 1 amount, quantity, supply, mass, bulk, abundance, sum total, aggregate: The volume of ore from the mine created a pile hundreds of feet high. Her volume of output is greater than yours and mine together. 2 capacity, size, measure: The volume of this bottle is not more than a litre. 3 loudness: Turn down the volume on that ghetto-blaster. 4 book, tome: I bought a twenty-volume set of Dickens.
voluntarily adv. freely, willingly, spontaneously, of (one's) own free will, on (one's) own (initiative or recognizance or responsibility), without prompting, without being prompted or asked, gratis, gratuitously; by choice, intentionally, purposely, on purpose, deliberately: Some of the students spent their summer vacation voluntarily helping the needy.
voluptuous adj. 1 sensual, sensualistic, sensuous, luxurious, voluptuary, sybaritic(al), hedonist(ic), pleasure-seeking, pleasure-loving, luxury-loving, (self-)indulgent: He longed to taste once again the voluptuous delights of the Corinthian court. 2 seductive, attractive, desirable, beautiful, tempting, inviting, appealing, enticing, alluring, ravishing, luscious, delicious, gorgeous, shapely, buxom, well-proportioned, well-endowed, well-built, Colloq curvaceous, sexy, eye-filling, Slang (well-)stacked, busty, US built: As he lolled on silken cushions, voluptuous houris danced round him in tightening circles.
voracious adj. 1 insatiable, gluttonous, ravenous, ravening, rapacious, piggish, hoggish, cormorant, predacious, edacious, devouring, greedy, avaricious, esurient, uncontrollable, uncontrolled, unquenchable, enormous, prodigious, US cormorant: Is there no satisfying the man's voracious appetite? 2 thirsty, hungry, desirous, avid, eager, zealous, enthusiastic, fervent, fervid, ardent, earnest, passionate, devoted: It was becoming difficult to satisfy the public's voracious demand for gossip.
vouch v. Usually, vouch for. support, guarantee, back (up), endorse, certify; uphold, sponsor, bear witness, attest to: My neighbour will vouch for me. Can she vouch for your not leaving the house all evening?
vow v. 1 swear, pledge, promise, assure, state, declare, give (one's) (solemn) word (of honour): I vowed to return after the war to care for those who had helped me escape. --n. 2 oath, pledge, promise, agreement; (solemn) word (of honour): She will keep her vow, you may be certain. vulgar adj. 1 indelicate, boorish, uncultured, uncultivated, low, unrefined, common, plebeian, inelegant, unladylike, ungentlemanly, gauche, uncouth, coarse, tasteless, ostentatious, ignoble, low-class, Colloq flash: The boss's wife was known for her vulgar behaviour at the dinner table. 2 tasteless, indelicate, indecent, rude, crude, naughty, dirty, improper, off colour, risqu, ribald, blue, indecorous, nasty, offensive, gross, lustful, obscene, lewd, lascivious, licentious, smutty, salacious, scatological, filthy, pornographic, Slang US raunchy: He made a lot of money through publishing vulgar magazines and videos. 3 popular, vernacular, ordinary, everyday, general, homespun, commonplace, household, average: Dictionaries should record the vulgar language as well as the literary.
vulnerable adj. exposed, defenceless, weak, sensitive, unprotected, unguarded, unshielded, helpless, powerless: She felt vulnerable to those who prey on the elderly. wad n. 1 pad, mass, lump, clod, ball, plug, chunk, hunk, block, pack: He had a wad of cotton wool in each ear. 2 roll, pocketful, heap, quantity, load, Colloq US bankroll: Over coffee James handed him a wad of notes.
wade v. 1 ford, cross, traverse, walk, make one's way: The water is only knee-deep, and you can wade across. 2 paddle, play, splash: There is a shallow pool where the little children can wade. 3 wade in or into. a enter, get in (or into), join (in): When the fight began, Patrick waded in with arms flailing. b attack, approach, get or set to work, plunge or dive into: I have to wade into an enormous pile of mail that accumulated while I was away. 4 wade through. plough through, work (one's) way through, hammer or pound away at, plod through, peg away at: You really have to wade through that entire book to write your report.
waft v. 1 drift, float, blow, whiff, be borne or carried or transported: The scent of jasmine wafted towards me on the warm breeze. --n. 2 breath, suggestion, puff, whiff, hint: A waft of cool, fresh air momentarily eased the stench of the dungeon.
wag n. comedian, wit, punster, pundit, joker, jester, comic, jokester, droll, merry andrew, clown, Colloq card: A wag said that tailors were like storks - known for their big bills.
wait v. 1 tarry, linger, hold on, stay, bide (one's) time, mark time, stand by, Colloq cool (one's) heels, stick around, sit tight, hang on, Brit hang about, US hang around: If you wait till I've finished this, I'll join you for dinner. 2 be delayed or postponed or deferred or shelved or put off, US be tabled, Colloq be put on ice or on the back burner: The quarterly sales figures can wait - we haven't yet completed those for this month. 3 wait on or upon. serve, attend (to), minister (to): Rose made such a fuss that the restaurant staff refused to wait on her. --n. 4 delay, pause, stay, hold-up, interval, halt, stop, stoppage, break, hiatus, lacuna, gap, respite, rest (period), intermission, discontinuation, recess: There was an extra long wait between trains because of track repairs further up the line.
waive v. 1 give up, relinquish, renounce, resign, forsake, forgo, cede, sign away, surrender, abandon, yield, dispense with: I waived my right to the inheritance in favour of my daughters. 2 set or put aside, except, ignore, disregard, overlook, abandon, defer, postpone: We are happy to waive the rules in your case, madam.
wake v. 1 Often, wake up. awaken, awake, rouse, waken, bring around; stir, bestir (oneself), get up, come to, get going: Wake me when it is over. She didn't wake up till noon. 2 awake, waken, awaken, animate, stimulate, enliven, galvanize, fire, quicken, inspirit, inspire, activate, liven up, vivify, kindle, vitalize, stir, arouse, get (someone) going, bring to life: When I feel this tired, it takes a lot to wake me up. Seeing Margo woke a spark in me I thought had long since died. --n. 3 vigil, watch, death-watch, funeral: If you have ever been to an Irish wake, you will know what I mean.
wakeful adj. 1 awake, sleepless, waking, unsleeping, restless, restive, insomniac: The children were wakeful the entire night in anticipation of a visit from Santa Claus. 2 watchful, (on the) alert, on the qui vive, sharp, attentive, vigilant, wary, cautious, observant, heedful, on the lookout: We remained wakeful, alert to any footstep.
wall n. 1 screen, partition, divider, enclosure, separator, bulkhead, barrier, obstruction, obstacle, impediment, block, fence: Marcie built round herself a wall of resentment which no one could penetrate. 2 barricade, fortification, protection, bulwark, breastwork, embankment, rampart, palisade, stockade: It was questionable whether the walls would withstand the cannon-balls. 3 drive up the wall. drive crazy or insane or mad, madden, exasperate, derange, try, irritate, infuriate, enrage: The constant caterwauling from the next flat is driving me up the wall. 4 go to the wall. fail, collapse, be ruined, face ruin, go bankrupt, lose everything, Colloq go broke, go under, fold (up), Slang go bust: Unicold went to the wall because of increased costs and decreased sales. --v. 5 Often, wall up or off. enclose, partition (off), close (off), brick up, immure: A bricklayer was hired to wall up the openings where the windows had been.
wallow v. 1 roll or loll about or around, welter, writhe, tumble, splash or plash: He enjoys watching the pigs wallowing in the mud. 2 Usually, wallow in. luxuriate in, bask in, revel in, glory in, indulge (oneself) in, give (oneself) up to, succumb to, take to, appreciate, fancy, enjoy, like, love, savour, Slang get a kick or a bang or a boot from or out of: Now that Gabriel is a big rock star, he simply wallows in all the attention he is getting. 3 stumble, stagger, lurch, flounder, teeter, totter, falter, pitch: Without its engines, the ship was lifted skyward by a wave one moment only to wallow in a trough the next.
wand n. baton, stick, staff, stick: The magician pointed with his wand and a bottle of gin appeared.
wane v. 1 decrease, diminish, grow less, lessen, decline, die out, abate, ebb, subside, fade (away), dim, taper off, peter out, wind down, weaken: The waning moon cast its pale light on the dying knight. As his strength waned he could no longer lift his sword. 2 draw to a close, end, terminate: The day waned into a gloomy evening. --n. 3 decrease, diminution, lessening, decline, abatement, ebb, subsidence, fading, tapering off, petering out, winding down, weakening, deterioration, degeneration: The 1970s saw the wane in popularity of large, gas-guzzling cars. 4 on the wane. on the decrease or decline or ebb, diminishing, decreasing, declining, abating, subsiding, fading, tapering off, petering out, winding down, weakening, deteriorating, degenerating: The economy is recovering, and inflation is on the wane. Since that latest illness, my energy has been on the wane.
want v. 1 desire, crave, wish (for), long for, pine for, hope (for), fancy, covet, hanker after, lust after, hunger for or after, thirst for or after, yearn for, Colloq have a yen for: I want you near me. Ignore his crying - he just wants some ice-cream. Maybe he's crying because he wants to go. 2 need, lack, miss, require, call for, demand, be deficient in, be or stand in want or in need of, necessitate; be or fall short of: This engine wants proper maintenance. The bottle wants only a few more drops to fill it. --n. 3 need, lack, shortage, deficiency, dearth, scarcity, scarceness, insufficiency, scantiness, inadequacy, paucity: For want of good writers, the literary quarterly diminished in size and finally disappeared. 4 appetite, hunger, thirst, craving, desire, fancy, wish, longing, yearning, hankering, demand, necessity, requirement, requisite, prerequisite, Colloq yen: She gave up trying to satisfy his wants. 5 poverty, need, indigence, homelessness, destitution, privation, pauperism, penury, neediness, impecuniousness: The civilized nations are trying to solve the problems of want, which seem to increase daily.
wanton adj. 1 immoral, dissolute, profligate, dissipated, depraved, loose, promiscuous, lustful, licentious, lecherous, wild, libidinous, lewd, lascivious, unchaste: She is a wanton hussy who is no better than she ought to be. 2 abandoned, unrestrained, undisciplined, ungoverned, ungovernable, unmanageable, outrageous, immoderate, intemperate, untempered: It is not the boy's fault, it is the wanton company he keeps. 3 reckless, rash, uncaring, lavish, extravagant, wilful, heedless, irresponsible, careless: This situation arises from the parents' wanton disregard for their children's moral training. 4 wicked, evil, malevolent, malicious, merciless, inhumane, vicious, cruel, violent, unjustified, unprovoked, uncalled-for, purposeless, motiveless, unjustifiable, arbitrary, gratuitous: We were subject to wanton attacks by the hill people. --n. 5 vamp, strumpet, whore, harlot, loose woman, prostitute, voluptuary, slut, trollop, Jezebel, Colloq tart, Slang hooker, working girl, call-girl: Who invited that wanton, with her tight-fitting, shamelessly low-cut dress?
ward n. 1 district, division, precinct, section, zone, quarter: Perkin was running for re-election as councillor of the Eastgate ward. 2 minor, dependant: The child was made a ward of the court. --v. 3 ward off. fend off, repel, avert, avoid, block, thwart, keep away or off or at bay or at arm's length, check, repulse, chase away or off, forestall: This brandy should help ward off the night chill.
warehouse n. storehouse, store, storeroom, depository, stockroom, depot, go-down: The books are kept in a warehouse and shipped to customers as needed.
warlike adj. combative, belligerent, bellicose, aggressive, pugnacious, hostile, bloodthirsty; hawkish, militaristic, jingoistic, warmongering: Violation of the border was a warlike act that must be punished. There are warlike factions in every government.
warm-blooded adj. 1 Technical homoeothermic or homoeothermal or homoiothermic or homoiothermal or homeothermic or homeothermal: Birds and mammals are warm-blooded, reptiles and fish are cold-blooded. 2 passionate, ardent, fervid, hot-blooded, impetuous, Colloq randy: He tried to excuse his behaviour towards her by saying that he was just a normal, warm-blooded man.
warmth n. 1 heat: We basked in the welcome warmth of the sun. 2 cordiality, heartiness, friendliness, geniality, amiableness, kindliness, tenderness, affability, love: Mother thrives on the warmth of a family environment and should not be put in a nursing home. 3 ardour, effusiveness, enthusiasm, zeal, excitedness, fervour, vehemence, vigour, ebullience, passion: I was taken aback by the warmth of the stranger's greeting. The resolution was debated with considerable warmth. 4 irritation, annoyance, pique: The warmth of his reaction to the accusation is understandable.
warning n. 1 caution, admonition, advice, counsel, caveat, word (to the wise), tip, notification, notice, threat; lesson, example: Cyril never took seriously his doctor's warning about his cholesterol level. Let that be a warning to you not to drink and drive. 2 omen, sign, signal, indication, augury, foretoken, portent, foreshadowing, forewarning, prophecy: Sailors take that kind of sky and a falling barometer as warning of a hurricane.
warrant n. 1 authorization, sanction, reason, justification, approval, validation, licence, right, certification, entitlement, grounds, cause, rationale, basis, assurance, carte blanche, guarantee, pledge, security, charter, warranty: We demand to know what warrant may exist for such an action. 2 writ, order, affidavit, paper, document, credential, permit, entitlement, licence, permit, summons, subpoena, mandate, decree, fiat, edict, ukase: Do not let them search the premises without a warrant. A warrant has been issued for her arrest. --v. 3 guarantee, promise, assure, ensure or insure, answer for, be answerable for, certify, vouch for, underwrite, back up, uphold, stand by or behind: All these products are warranted by the manufacturer for one year. 4 authorize, sanction, justify, explain, approve, verify, validate, permit, allow, provide or offer grounds or justification or cause or reason for, call for, necessitate, entitle, empower, excuse, license: What is it that warrants such accusations of malfeasance?
wary adj. cautious, careful, on (one's) guard, circumspect, prudent, apprehensive, chary, watchful, vigilant, on the qui vive, heedful, observant, on (one's) toes, Colloq cagey, Slang leery (of): Phoebe is wary of going out with someone she doesn't know.
washed out adj. 1 wan, pale, pallid, colourless, faded, lacklustre, flat; blanched, bleached, etiolated: Gene looks washed out because he never gets out in the sun. She was wearing washed-out jeans and a torn t-shirt. 2 exhausted, spent, tired, tired out, weary, worn out, fatigued, drained, Colloq dog-tired, bone-tired, done in, all in, fagged out, bushed, Brit knocked up, US knocked out, Slang beat, US and Canadian tuckered out, pooped: After a hard day in the office, I feel completely washed out.
washout n. failure, disaster, dbcle, (total) loss, fiasco, disappointment, Colloq flop, dud, Brit damp squib, US lead balloon: His attempts to revive the hula-hoop craze were a washout.
waste v. 1 squander, misuse, throw away, fritter away, misspend, splurge, dissipate, Slang blow: Why I wasted so much time on him I'll never know. Don't waste your money on such frivolities. 2 Often, waste away. diminish, deteriorate, dwindle, decline, decay, atrophy, wither, shrink, weaken, become debilitated, fade, become enervated or enfeebled, regress, ebb, sink: She is just wasting away, and I am seriously worried that she may not recover. 3 enervate, enfeeble, emaciate, gnaw, destroy, consume, debilitate, exhaust, disable: Arkwright contracted a terrible wasting disease while in the tropics. 4 assassinate, murder, kill, Slang put away, rub out, US ice: Don't worry, Boss, we'll waste Andy and you won't have no more trouble. --n. 5 misuse, misapplication, squandering, dissipation, misemployment, abuse, neglect: What a terrible waste of talent to have such a person doing such lowly work! Do not let that genius go to waste. 6 wasting, extravagance, prodigality, wastefulness, squandering, indulgence, lavishness, profligacy, dissoluteness, improvidence, overindulgence: Government waste is one of our biggest problems. 7 refuse, rubbish, garbage, dregs, debris, leavings, scrap, offscourings, sweepings, litter, Archaic orts, US and Canadian trash: Techniques are being developed to process the waste in order to avoid using landfills, incineration, or dumping at sea. 8 wasteland, desert, wilderness, barrens, wilds, emptiness, vastness: Beyond that system were vast wastes of uninhabited space. --adj. 9 extra, leftover, unused, superfluous, worthless, useless: The waste food was usually fed to the animals. 10 barren, unproductive, unusable, unsalvageable, useless, unrecyclable, unprofitable, worthless: The waste products of manufacture are a big problem. 11 lay waste. devastate, destroy, demolish, despoil, ruin, wreck, ravage, pillage, sack, plunder, loot, rob, strip, spoil, gut, ransack, wreak havoc (up)on, crush, raze, annihilate, eradicate, extirpate, wipe out: These lands and cities, laid waste by the invaders, have never recovered.
wastrel n. 1 spendthrift, profligate, waster, prodigal, big spender, squanderer: That wastrel went through his inheritance in a year. 2 idler, layabout, malingerer, loafer, shirker, good-for-nothing, ne'er-do-well, Chiefly Brit drone, Slang Brit skiver: The workhouse is the place for wastrels like you!
watchman n. (security) guard, sentinel, sentry, watch, night-watchman, custodian, caretaker; watchdog: After retiring from the police, he worked as a watchman.
water-colour n. aquarelle: John's water-colours sell as fast as he paints them.
watertight adj. 1 sealed, waterproof: The escape hatch has been made watertight. 2 unassailable, impregnable, solid, airtight, flawless, faultless, incontrovertible; without loopholes: Landry has a watertight alibi for the night of the crime. watery adj. 1 weak, dilute(d), watered down, tasteless, insipid, flavourless, bland, flat, dull, thin, runny, pallid, anaemic, Colloq wishy-washy: He asked me in, then gave me some watery tea to drink. 2 weeping, teary, tearful, running, weepy, lachrymose, rheumy: The child looked up at him with watery eyes and then collapsed, sobbing. 3 wet, swampy, boggy, marshy, aqueous, squelchy; soggy, moist, damp, humid; Colloq squushy or squooshy: It took days to make our way across that watery plain to the high ground.
way n. 1 manner, method, mode, fashion, means, system, course (of action), procedure, approach, scheme, technique, practice, modus operandi, Colloq MO (= 'modus operandi'): That's no way to talk to your mother! We have ways of making you talk. Is that any way to treat a lady?! It's the wrong way to deal with the problem. 2 manner, spirit, feeling, sense, character, approach, personality, temperament, disposition, modus vivendi (= 'lifestyle'), nature, technique, style, conduct, habit, behaviour pattern, custom: He has such a pleasant way about him. Lucinda certainly has a way with children and dogs. You city people may not approve of our down-to-earth country ways. 3 path, road, street, avenue, course, route, trail, direction: Show me the way to go home. The way to the village lies through dark woods. 4 distance; route, trail, course, road: You've come a long way since we last met. 5 progress, passage, advance, headway; speed, velocity, motion, (forward) movement: We made our way to the front of the crowd. Who has the right of way at the crossing? The tide was too strong for us to get any way on. 6 aspect, respect, particular, detail, point, sense, feature: In certain ways, you remind me of Attila the Hun. 7 clearance, pathway, avenue, scope, freedom, opportunity: When you hear a siren, drive to the side and give way. Make way for the Lord High Executioner! 8 condition, situation: She prefers the prissy 'in a family way' to the straightforward 'pregnant' and the vulgar 'have a bun in the oven'. I saw Luke yesterday and he was really in a bad way. 9 by the way. incidentally, moreover, by the by, parenthetically: By the way, have I told you how beautiful you look tonight? 10 by way of. a via, through, by means of: We drove from London to Oxford by way of Reading. b (functioning) as, in (the) way of, in the capacity of, equivalent to, more or less, something like: Richard is by way of being an expert on eccentric behaviour. 11 give way. a collapse, break (down), fail, cave in, fall (down), crumble, crumple, disintegrate, go to pieces: The cable gave way, causing the bridge to collapse. b yield, surrender, retreat, concede, withdraw, accede, make concessions, acquiesce, acknowledge: The trouble is that they both think they are in the right and neither will give way. 12 under way. proceeding, progressing, on the move, moving, advancing, going, begun, started, in progress, operating, functioning, at work, US in work, Colloq in the works, US in the pipeline: Once under way, it takes the ship three days to make the crossing. Plans are under way to reclaim the slum area for a park.
way-out adj. 1 bizarre, mad, weird, crazy, strange, odd, peculiar, freakish, freaky, eccentric, queer, abnormal, offbeat, outrageous, wild, exotic, esoteric, Colloq kinky, Slang kooky, off-the-wall, far-out, screwy, nutty, US flaky, screwball: The police did not take kindly to the boys' way-out behaviour after the party. 2 avant-garde, advanced, original, innovative, unorthodox, unconventional, experimental, precedent-setting, progressive, exploratory, ground-breaking, Slang far-out: Spencer thinks that the way-out art of the 1960s will have great value one day.
weaken v. 1 debilitate, enfeeble, enervate, emasculate, mitigate, moderate, dilute, deplete, diminish, lessen, depress, lower, reduce, sap, undermine, exhaust, impoverish: The continuous torture helped to weaken Errol's resolve. 2 fade, dwindle, tire, droop, sag, fail, give way, crumble, flag: My determination weakened when I saw what had happened to the children. 3 give in, relent, acquiesce, give way, yield, accede, consent, agree, assent, soften, bend, ease up, let up, ease off, relax: If you ask very politely, she might weaken and allow you to go out and play. 4 water (down), dilute, thin (out): Adding the water so weakened the soup that it tasted like dishwater.
weakness n. 1 feebleness, frailty, fragility, delicacy, delicateness, vulnerability, infirmity, decrepitude: They discovered a weakness in the structure of the bridge, so it had to be closed. 2 incapacity, irresolution, irresoluteness, impotence, powerlessness, puniness: He is ashamed of his weakness in being unable to stop smoking. 3 weak point, foible, failing, fault, shortcoming, flaw, Achilles' heel, defect, imperfection, liability: Her one great weakness is her inability to deny her children anything. 4 soft spot, fondness, affection, liking, preference, bent, leaning, inclination, fancy, penchant, predilection, proneness, proclivity, predisposition, partiality, appreciation, appetite, sweet tooth, taste, eye: The two of them share a weakness for good food and wine.
wealthy adj. rich, affluent, well off, prosperous, well-to-do, opulent, comfortable, moneyed, Colloq in the money, on Easy Street, flush, well-heeled, in clover, Slang loaded, stinking (rich), filthy rich, quids in, rolling in it: Bill has a wealthy aunt who sends him a little something now and then.
weary adj. 1 tired, fatigued, exhausted, worn out, drained, spent, Colloq all in, ready to drop, fagged (out), done in, dead (on (one's) feet), frazzled, dead beat, dog-tired, Brit knocked up, US knocked out, Slang Brit whacked, knackered, US pooped, zonked (out), shot: He is so weary after work that he can scarcely eat his dinner. 2 boring, irksome, irritating, tedious, vexing, annoying, exasperating, burdensome, wearying, tiring, fatiguing, draining, taxing, wearisome: We walked many a weary mile before reaching the oasis. 3 bored, impatient, jaded, blas, Colloq fed up, sick and tired, Taboo slang browned off: I wish he would wipe that weary expression off his smug face. --v. 4 Often, weary of. tire (of), be or become bored (with or by) or impatient (with) or jaded (with or by), Colloq be or become fed up (with) or sick and tired (of): I soon wearied of her nagging. 5 exhaust, enervate, fatigue, tire, debilitate, drain, tax, wear or tire out: The long trek across country had wearied us all.
weave v. 1 loom; braid, plait, entwine, intertwine, interlace, interweave, knit (together): These fabrics were woven by hand. Weave these leather strands together to make a belt. 2 blend, combine, fuse, merge, unite, intermingle, mesh, splice, dovetail, join: The threads of their lives are inextricably woven together. 3 construct, make, contrive, build, create, fabricate, compose, spin, design: Oh, what a tangled web we weave When first we practise to deceive! 4 zigzag, criss-cross, wend or make (one's) way, dodge, bob and weave, shift: Look at that motor cyclist weaving in and out of the traffic! 5 get weaving. get started, get a move on, hurry (up), start, Colloq shake a leg, Brit get or pull (one's) finger out, Chiefly US get a wiggle on: If you're going to get to work on time, you'd best get weaving.
wed v. 1 marry, espouse, get married, become husband and wife, say or take (one's) (marriage) vows, join or unite in holy wedlock or matrimony; lead down the aisle, lead to the altar, Archaic wive; Colloq tie the knot, get hitched, get spliced: They were wed on the fourth of July, 1921. That was when Harry wed Annabel. 2 combine, unite, ally, marry, blend, merge, join, mingle, intermingle, commingle, coalesce, mix, intermix, amalgamate, compound, alloy, fuse, homogenize: As a chef, he is extremely fortunate to be able to wed business to pleasure.
wedding n. 1 marriage (ceremony), wedding ceremony, nuptials; confarreation: Our son's wedding was attended by members of the royal family. 2 combining, combination, uniting, union, joining, juncture, blending, blend, allying, alliance, associating, association, marrying, marriage, merging, merger, mingling, intermingling, commingling, coalescing, coalescence, mixing, mixture, intermixing, amalgamating, amalgamation, compounding, compound, alloying, alloy, fusing, fusion, homogenizing, homogenization: Through her wedding of vision to observation she has produced some truly remarkable paintings.
wee adj. 1 tiny, small, diminutive, little, minuscule, midget, minute, miniature, Lilliputian, microscopic, Colloq itty-bitty, itsy-bitsy, teeny(-weeny), teensy(-weensy): Johnny caught his wee little finger in the door. 2 unimportant, insignificant, trivial, little, puny: It was only a wee thing, of no interest to anyone but me.
weigh v. 1 Sometimes, weigh in at or out at. Colloq tip the scales at: The sailboard weighed in at 250 pounds. I weigh more than I should. 2 consider, ponder, contemplate, think on or over or about, mull over, turn over in the or (one's) mind, ruminate over, chew over, reflect on or upon, brood over, pore over, study, examine: After weighing the qualifications of the candidates, we voted for you. Weigh your words carefully before responding. 3 judge, estimate, assess, evaluate, value, determine: It is not easy to weigh each person's contribution to the effort. 4 Usually, weigh on or upon. lie heavy on, burden, depress, prey on, oppress, disturb, perturb, upset: Loneliness weighs heavily on Dave's widow. 5 matter, count, have (an) effect or influence, carry weight, be of value or account, Colloq cut any ice: Certain factors - like the sizes of the bribes - are likely to weigh heavily with the judges of this particular beauty contest. 6 weigh down. burden, overburden, load, overload, encumber, tax, overtax, strain, trouble, worry, depress, oppress: He's been weighed down by financial worries since losing his job.
weighty adj. 1 heavy, ponderous, massive, huge, bulky, substantial, ample, large, mammoth, colossal, immense, enormous, gigantic, prodigious; corpulent, fat, obese, adipose, Colloq hefty: I found myself face to face with a rather weighty gentleman who was blocking the doorway. 2 important, consequential, significant, momentous, grave, crucial, portentous, thought-provoking, provocative: These are weighty matters and should be handled with circumspection. 3 influential, convincing, persuasive, impressive, telling, powerful, potent, leading; forceful: Weighty arguments have been put forward in support of these proposals.
weirdo n. eccentric, madman, madwoman, lunatic, psychotic, Colloq crazy, weirdie, nutcase, oddball, queer fish, crank, Slang freak, loony, psycho, Brit nutter, US screwball, nut, kook: Why belong to a club whose members are weirdos who refuse to talk to one another?
weld v. 1 unite, combine, merge, fuse, connect, link, join; solder, braze, cement, bond: We felt welded together in a brotherhood that would last forever. The brace must be welded all the way along the edge. --n. 2 seam, joint, juncture, commissure: The weld must be filed down smooth.
well adv. 1 satisfactorily, sufficiently, adequately, agreeably, nicely, (well) enough, Colloq OK or okay: Alan is doing well these days. 2 successfully, famously, marvellously, wonderfully, fabulously, incredibly, splendidly, admirably, spectacularly, excellently, superbly: Barbara and David really get along well together. 3 articulately, understandably, expressively, correctly, accurately, properly, proficiently, effectively, artistically, poetically; grammatically: Henry will make a good announcer because he speaks well. 4 comfortably, luxuriously, prosperously, extravagantly, showily, pretentiously, ostentatiously, sumptuously, grandly, opulently: How can Rita live so well with no visible income? Living well is the best revenge. 5 graciously, kindly, highly, favourably, glowingly, approvingly, warmly, genially, cordially, amiably, kind-heartedly, warm-heartedly, affectionately, lovingly: Rudolph has always spoken well of you, Aileen. 6 skilfully, expertly, adeptly, proficiently, ably: Does Anne play well enough to compete professionally? Paul sings well. 7 far, by a long way, immeasurably, (very) much; far and away, definitely, positively, obviously, clearly, plainly, manifestly, evidently, unquestionably, decidedly, beyond (the shadow of a) doubt, Colloq by a long chalk: Keep well away from the fuel tank before lighting that cigarette. She is well beyond the beginner stage. This painting is well worth what you paid. 8 good-naturedly, equably, coolly, serenely, calmly, soberly, unexcitedly, sedately: Burt took the bad news about his car very well. 9 likely, probably, in all probability, doubtlessly, without doubt, not unexpectedly, indeed: He might well say he needs no help. 10 easily, without difficulty: Though he gave her the money, he could not well spare it. 11 completely, entirely, wholly: Before she could well finish her sentence, he was out of the house. 12 thoroughly (cooked), (cooked) through and through, completely (cooked): He likes his roast beef well done. 13 intimately, closely, familiarly, personally; thoroughly, profoundly, soundly, fully: Do you know Boris well? I learnt my lesson well. 14 fairly, justly, suitably, properly, adequately, reasonably, fully, generously, amply: James is well paid for his work. 15 happily, mercifully, fortunately, luckily: After the divorce, both said they were well rid of each other. --adj. 16 healthy, fit, hale, robust, vigorous, hearty, in fine or good fettle, Colloq in good shape: Wendy felt really well after her holiday. 17 satisfactory, pleasing, agreeable, good, right, all right, fine, proper, OK or okay: When he phoned the office, they told him all was well.
well-advised adj. prudent, wise, sensible, intelligent, smart: You would be well-advised to avoid Chichicastenango at this time of year.
well-bred adj. well brought up, well-mannered, polite, decorous, mannerly, refined, courteous, cultivated, polished, cultured, gentlemanly, ladylike, elegant, suave, urbane, sophisticated, gracious, courtly, genteel, gallant, chivalrous: Jane prefers bikers to the well-bred gentlemen her mother selects for her.
well-fed adj. plump, chunky, thickset, chubby, rounded, rotund, portly, stout, fleshy, overweight, adipose, fat, obese, gross, Brit podgy or US pudgy: On the westward crossing we were seated with a well-fed Austrian couple.
well-informed adj. knowledgeable, learned, well-read, well-versed, well-educated, literate, educated, Colloq in the know, wise, US vibrating on the right frequency, Slang hip or hep: With access to all the media, what excuse have you for not being well-informed?
well off adj. comfortable, wealthy, rich, affluent, prosperous, well-to-do, Colloq well-heeled, US well-fixed: They are well off and live in a charming house on the edge of the Cotswolds.
well-timed adj. timely, seasonable, opportune, auspicious, favourable, advantageous, beneficial: Tax incentives gave a well-timed boost to the economy.
welt n. 1 bead, ridge, seam, edge, wale, stripe: The cushion has a welt of contrasting colour binding it. 2 bruise, contusion, bump, lump, scar, weal or wale or wheal: The boy's back was covered with red welts where he had been birched.
wet adj. 1 moist, moistened, damp, dampened, soaked, soaking, sopping, wringing, dripping, sodden, soppy, saturated, drenched: During the rainy season, the ground is far too wet for planting. 2 rainy, raining, teeming, pouring, drizzling, showery: We have had a very wet spring this year. 3 feeble, weak, irresolute, effet, namby-pamby, foolish, ineffectual, ineffective, spineless, timorous, cowardly: She considered some of her colleagues too wet to take the tough action needed. --n. 4 moisture, water, wetness, dampness, damp, humidity, liquid: The wet stood out on his forehead. 5 rain, wetness, mist, dew, fog, damp, humidity: Come in out of the wet, and warm yourself by the fire. 6 milksop, softie or softy, lightweight, Colloq drip, loser, Brit weed, Slang wimp, US weak sister: Why is he such a wet about standing up for his rights? wheedle v. coax, cajole, inveigle, charm, beguile, persuade, talk; butter up; Colloq con, sweet-talk: Irena always managed to wheedle someone into taking her dancing.
whereabouts n.pl. or sg. 1 location, position, place, site, situation, locale, neighbourhood, vicinity: Her present whereabouts are unknown to me. The culprit concealed his whereabouts from the police. --adv. 2 where, in or at or to what place, whither: Whereabouts are you going to spend your holiday? Whereabouts are you going?
whimsical adj. 1 quaint, fey, fanciful, odd, curious, unusual, chimeric(al), queer, singular, peculiar, funny, fantastic(al), pixyish, playful, puckish, absurd, preposterous, Colloq offbeat: When Andrew's whimsical drawings caught on they were bought by greetings card makers. 2 capricious, erratic, eccentric, wavering, flighty, unsettled, fickle, mercurial, wavering, fluctuating, unpredictable, inconsistent, volatile, unsteady: The buses in our village run on what could best be termed a whimsical timetable.
whipping n. 1 beating, thrashing, lashing, flogging, horsewhipping, scourging, switching, caning, birching, flagellation, spanking: Once he had had a whipping, the boy would not misbehave again. 2 Nautical seizing, binding, tying, winding, fastening: The whipping will prevent the end of the line from unravelling.
whirlwind n. 1 waterspout, dust devil, cyclone, typhoon, anticyclone, hurricane, extra-tropical cyclone, tropical cyclone, Nontechnical tornado, Nautical white squall, Australian willy-willy, Colloq US whirly: A whole row of houses was destroyed in the whirlwind. --adj. 2 speedy, quick, swift, sudden, precipitous, lightning, headlong, hasty, rash, impetuous: It was one of those whirlwind romances that last till the wind dies down.
whisky n. whiskey, alcohol, spirits, John Barleycorn, usquebaugh, Scotch, home-brew, mother's ruin (= 'gin'), Scots barley-bree, Brit Scotch, US rye, bourbon, white lightning, white mule, moonshine, Colloq booze, hooch, rot-gut, US corn, fire-water, Slang US Sneaky Pete, smoke: Peter is a welcome guest who always remembers to bring a bottle of whisky.
white adj. 1 snow-white, snowy, chalk-white, chalky, ivory, creamy, milky, milk-white, oyster-white, off-white; silver, hoary: Many buildings in the tropics are painted white. Do you believe that a person's hair can turn white overnight? 2 pale, pallid, pasty, wan, whey-faced, ashen, bloodless, drained, whitish, waxen, ghastly, ghostly, anaemic, dead white, deathly white, cadaverous, corpse-like: Her black dress contrasted starkly with her white complexion. 3 innocent, pure, unsullied, stainless, unblemished, spotless, immaculate, virginal, virtuous, undefiled, chaste: She came to you with white hands, which you have sought to dirty with your vicious accusations. 4 Caucasian, Caucasoid, light-skinned, fair-skinned, pale-complexioned: The American Indian was - and still is treated very unfairly by the White man.
whittle v. 1 pare (down or away), shave, trim, cut, carve, hew, shape: Remember when Grandpapa used to whittle those tiny figures of elves when we were children? 2 Usually, whittle away at or down. pare, shave, cut, trim, reduce, diminish, erode, eat away at: If he keeps whittling away at his trust fund, he might have to get a job.
wholehearted adj. devoted, dedicated, committed, earnest, sincere, unqualified, unmitigated, unreserved, complete, entire, unstinting, real, true, genuine, hearty, heartfelt, serious, enthusiastic, zealous, warm, fervent, ardent, spirited, eager, energetic: Once I agree to help, you can rely on my wholehearted support.
wholly adv. 1 altogether, entirely, absolutely, quite, totally, thoroughly, completely, in toto, fully, in all respects, in every way, all in all, utterly, unqualifiedly, every inch, 100%; lock, stock, and barrel; root and branch; backwards and forwards; from the ground up; Colloq bag and baggage; hook, line, and sinker; to the nth degree; (the) whole hog, US up one side and down the other: We are wholly on your side in this matter. The company has been wholly reorganized. 2 only, exclusively, solely, unexceptionally, categorically, unequivocally, unambiguously, explicitly: The success or failure of the plan depends wholly on you.
whopping adj. 1 huge, great, enormous, colossal, gigantic, immense, tremendous, prodigious, monstrous, thumping, mammoth, massive, Brobdingnagian: With that whopping Great Dane of yours in the kitchen there's no room to move about. 2 flagrant, outrageous, extravagant, terrible, awful: Jones tells such whopping lies I don't know when to believe him. wicked adj. 1 evil, bad, immoral, amoral, unprincipled, sinful, impious, irreligious, blasphemous, profane, sacrilegious, ungodly, godless, diabolic(al), satanic, Mephistophelian, demonic, demoniac(al), hellish, infernal, accursed, damnable, fiendish, ghoulish: How wicked must one be to murder one's own child? She has done many wicked things, but this was the worst. 2 depraved, dissolute, villainous, black-hearted, iniquitous, horrible, horrid, hideous, heinous, beastly, base, low, vile, debased, degenerate, perverse, perverted, corrupt, foul, offensive, abominable, disgraceful, shameful, dreadful, awful, gross, gruesome, grim, appalling, grisly, loathsome, lawless, unrepentant, unregenerate, incorrigible, criminal, felonious, rascally, knavish, terrible, egregious, execrable: The Deluge was regarded as divine vengeance on a wicked world. He was a wicked man, in league with the devil himself. 3 dirty, pornographic, filthy, erotic, obscene, lewd, offensive, indecent, prurient, smutty, rude, taboo, blue, coarse, bawdy, vulgar, salacious, licentious, nasty, X-rated, Colloq US raunchy: The townspeople took the wicked books and burnt them all. 4 vicious, beastly, savage, nasty, bad, violent, mean, cruel: Graham has a wicked temper. The boys were subjected to the most wicked treatment. 5 naughty, mischievous, impish, sly, devilish, rascally, roguish, scampish, puckish; vexatious, exasperating, annoying, irritating, irksome, trying, galling, bothersome: What trouble have those wicked children got themselves into now? It is wicked of you to make pig noises every time I mention Bertha. 6 foul, offensive, pernicious, baleful, mephitic, disgusting, revolting, sickening, repulsive, repellent, nauseous, repugnant, rotten, pestilential, noxious: That liniment the doctor prescribed has a wicked odour. 7 expert, ingenious, superior, superb, superlative, outstanding, masterful, masterly, skilful, deft, adept: That chap Gough plays a wicked game of tennis.
widely adv. 1 extensively, thoroughly, universally, everywhere, generally, by many: In the days when it was widely believed that the earth was flat, perhaps it was. 2 to a large or a great extent, greatly, largely, very much, extremely, considerably, substantially: Opinions differ widely regarding the origin of the universe.
width n. 1 breadth, wideness, compass, broadness, span; diameter, calibre, bore; measure; Nautical beam: What is the standard width of railway track in this country? The width of the cannon-ball is three inches. 2 reach, scope, range, breadth, extent, extensiveness: There is an impressive width of choice at the restaurant.
wife n. mate, helpmeet, helpmate, spouse, bride, partner, Colloq better half, little woman, the missis or missus, old lady or woman, ball and chain, Slang trouble and strife: Doesn't your wife mind your going out every night?
wile n. Often, wiles. trick, stratagem, ruse, artifice, subterfuge, dodge, trap, snare, manoeuvre, ploy, contrivance, move, gambit, plot, scheme, machination, Colloq (little) game: You won't get far trying to work your wiles on me, young lady.
will n. 1 desire, wish, longing, liking, inclination, disposition, drive, purposefulness, purpose, intent, intention, resolve, commitment, resolution, determination; will-power: Where there's a will there's a way. Some believe that taking medication is against God's will. Marguerite seems to have lost the will to live. 2 choice, wishes, desire, inclination: He was forced to submit against his will. 3 (last will and) testament, last wishes: In accordance with his will, Josiah was buried at sea. 4 at will. as or when (one) pleases or wishes or thinks fit(ting), at (one's) desire or whim or pleasure or discretion: If he brings his own car, then he can leave at will. --v. 5 want, desire, wish, choose, see fit, make, compel, force, command, order, ordain, require: When she willed him to appear, there was a flash of lightning and he was there. 6 leave, bequeath, devise, hand down or on, pass on, transfer; settle upon or on: My great-uncle Philip willed me his collection of 19th-century theatre memorabilia.
willingly adv. readily, happily, contentedly, gladly, cheerfully, amenably, agreeably, freely, passively, docilely, of (one's) own accord or free will, on (one's) own, ungrudgingly, by choice, voluntarily, unhesitatingly, nothing loath, eagerly, enthusiastically, zealously, avidly, Colloq at the drop of a hat: We did not coerce him in any way - he went along quite willingly. You can rely on Hubert to give willingly and generously to support any good cause.
willy-nilly adv. 1 whether one likes it or not, inevitably, necessarily, of necessity, perforce, whether or no, like it or not, nolens volens, bon gr, mal gr: Having borrowed the money, you must, willy-nilly, repay it. --adj. 2 necessary, unavoidable, inevitable, involuntary: He joked about a willy-nilly choice, meaning one offering no alternatives.
wily adj. shrewd, cunning, crafty, sly, artful, guileful, clever, foxy, vulpine, disingenuous, shifty, scheming, plotting, calculating, designing, sharp, canny, deceitful, deceiving, deceptive, treacherous, perfidious, false, double-dealing, dishonest, underhand(ed), tricky, smooth, slick, slippery, oily, unctuous, Scots and No. Eng. pawky, Colloq cagey, crooked, two-timing, Slang chiefly Brit fly: Rats are wily and cunning, and have to be taken seriously.
wind n. 1 breeze, zephyr, puff, gust, breath, draught, light air, current (of air): A gentle wind wafted our little boat across the bay. 2 puffery, bombast, rodomontade, bluster, boasting, braggadocio, vain speech, blather, (idle or empty) talk, fustian, nonsense, twaddle, humbug, babble, gibberish, Colloq gab, hot air, claptrap, hogwash, rot, hooey, boloney, Slang Brit (load of (old)) cobblers: I went there for advice and all I got was a lot of wind. 3 gas, flatulence, windiness, flatus, borborygmus (= 'stomach rumbling (as from gas)'), heartburn, Taboo slang fart (= 'anal release of gas'): I have to take a pill to relieve this wind. 4 before the wind. Nautical downwind, off the wind: We were racing before the wind with every scrap of sail flying. 5 break wind. Taboo slang fart: It is considered rude to break wind. 6 get or have wind of. hear of, learn of, come to know, pick up, be made or become aware of, gather, understand, hear on the grapevine, Colloq hear tell of: We got wind of the company's plans to close this plant. 7 get or have the wind up. take fright, become frightened or afraid or apprehensive: When I heard a window being raised I got the wind up. 8 in the wind. around, about, rumoured, in the air, detectable, discernible, discoverable, imminent, impending, approaching, close (at hand), about to happen or take place or occur, afoot, in the offing, near, on the way, Colloq Brit on the cards, US in the cards: We knew that a change was in the wind, but never expected the chairman to resign. 9 off the wind. See 5, above. 10 on the or a wind. Nautical upwind, windward, to the wind, into (the teeth or the eye of) the wind; near the wind Because 'Syrena' was a sloop, she could sail closer on the wind than the schooner. 11 put the wind up. scare, frighten, alarm: The leakage at the nuclear plant really put the wind up everyone living in the area. 12 sail close or near to the wind. take risks, throw caution to the winds, play with fire, skate on thin ice, take (one's) life in (one's) hands, Colloq stick (one's) neck out, Slang go for broke: One nude scene is highly salacious, and we think the director is sailing very close to the wind by including it. 13 take the wind out of (someone's) sails. deflate (someone), disconcert (someone), destroy (someone's) advantage, ruin (someone's) superiority or supremacy or ascendancy: It rather took the wind out of her sails when he announced that he was leaving anyway.
windfall n. bonanza, godsend, stroke of (good) fortune, serendipitous find, boon, piece of (good) luck, jackpot, (lucky) strike: The sale of the house provided a windfall that saved them from imminent bankruptcy.
winner n. victor, champion, prizewinner, title-holder, conqueror, conquering hero, Colloq champ: The winner will receive a new car.
wintry adj. 1 hiemal, brumal, hibernal; icy, snowy, freezing, frozen, frosty, cold, frigid, bitter (cold), chilly, chilling, piercing, cutting, glacial, Siberian, arctic, hyperborean: It was cold and the sky was clear and wintry with premonitions of frost. 2 cold, frigid, chilly, cool, chilling, glacial: She got a very wintry reception from Dan's parents, who disliked the idea of their living together. 3 forbidding, bleak, dismal, cheerless, dreary, harsh, unfriendly, ugly, menacing, ominous, threatening, dark: His comment about her age evoked only a wintry look from Margot.
wiry adj. muscular, sinewy, lean, lank, thin and strong, tough and flexible: He was a stocky and wiry little man, rather like a short-legged terrier.
wise adj. 1 sage, sagacious, judicious, reasonable, commonsensical, prudent, sensible, insightful, sapient, understanding, rational, sound, clear-sighted, clear-headed, discerning, perspicacious, perspicuous, percipient, perceptive, intelligent, acute, astute, sharp, shrewd, crafty, clever, bright, quick-witted, smart, brilliant, long-headed, Colloq brainy: Among the wisest of men were Solomon, Confucius, Buddha, and, perhaps, Aristotle. 2 knowledgeable, learned, enlightened, informed, erudite; (well-)educated, knowing, well-read, well-versed, lettered, scholarly: We saw to it that they escaped, and the police were none the wiser. Wise heads prevailed at the college on what constituted worthwhile research. 3 well-advised, advisable, judicious, sensible, expedient, reasonable, strategic, tactful, tactical, prudent, politic, discreet, diplomatic, well-thought-out, well-considered, proper, fitting, appropriate, meet: Do you think it wise to punish the child so severely? 4 put wise (to). inform or advise or warn (of or about): If you must know how he found out, it was Myrna who put him wise. Did she also put him wise to where the money is hidden? 5 wise to. aware or knowledgeable or informed of or about, sensitive to, on to or onto, Colloq in the know about: You are wrong if you think she isn't wise to your little tricks. Get wise to what's going on, Man. --v. 6 wise up (to). become informed or aware (of or about), wake up (to), Colloq get wise (to) or in the know (about): If Cooley doesn't wise up, he'll be in deep trouble. Was it you who wised Meg up to the fact that Tom no longer cares?
wise guy n. wiseacre, smart alec or aleck, Archaic witling, Colloq know-all or know-it-all, Brit Clever Dick or cleverdick, Slang smarty-pants, smarty, Brit smart-arse, US smart-ass, wisenheimer: There's always some wise guy waiting to make a clever remark.
wishy-washy adj. 1 neither here nor there, undecided, indecisive, irresolute, half-hearted, shilly-shallying, tergiversating, vacillating, uncertain, of or having mixed feelings, of two minds: Make up your mind and stop being so wishy-washy about everything! 2 feeble, weak, watery, watered down, thin, vapid, flat, bland, runny, diluted, tasteless, insipid, flavourless, stale: Isabel served me some wishy-washy tea and sent me on my way.
wistful adj. 1 melancholy, mournful, sad, morose, sorrowful, disconsolate, heartsick, forlorn, woeful, woebegone, desirous, longing, yearning: She gave a last, wistful look at the aeroplane as it rose into the clouds. 2 thoughtful, contemplative, pensive, absent-minded, detached, absorbed, in a brown study, preoccupied, meditating, meditative, reflective, ruminating, ruminative, dreamy, dreaming, day-dreaming, musing: Some might have misinterpreted his wistful gaze at her photograph.
witch n. 1 sorceress, enchantress, magician, sibyl, pythoness; warlock: The witches prophesied that Macbeth would be king. 2 hag, fury, battleaxe, crone, gorgon, Medusa, ogress, Xanthippe, shrew, virago, harridan, fishwife, termagant, Archaic beldam or beldame, Offensive old bag, bitch: How could you stand living with the old witch for so many years?
withering adj. destructive, devastating, death-dealing, murderous, deadly: The enemy laid down a withering barrage of machine-gun fire.
withstand v. resist, oppose, stand (up to), face, defy, confront, combat, grapple with, fight (against), cope with, hold out against, weather, suffer, survive, tolerate, take, bear, last through, endure, brave, Colloq Brit stick: Can Brian withstand the pressure of his new job? Our small force withstood the attack for days.
witticism n. pun, quip, play on words, bon mot, jest, joke, epigram, clever remark, sally, Archaic or literary conceit, Colloq gag, one-liner: Clive is just as likely to utter a witticism as say something excruciatingly banal.
wizened adj. wrinkled, shrunken, shrivelled (up), withered, gnarled, dried up, wilted, faded, wasted: The wizened old crone is his grandmother.
woebegone adj. troubled, miserable, anguished, wretched, grief-stricken, unhappy, desolate, doleful, dolorous, melancholy, melancholic, gloomy, mournful, sorrowful, depressed, dejected, sad, glum, crestfallen, chap-fallen, lugubrious, downcast, disconsolate, unfortunate, star-crossed, afflicted, distressed, woeful, forlorn, downhearted, broken-hearted, heartbroken, disheartened, Slang US bummed out: Timmy has been so woebegone since his puppy was stolen!
wonder n. 1 marvel, prodigy, phenomenon, spectacle, rarity, sight, curiosity, miracle, Slang knockout, stunner, mind-blower, mind-boggler, trip: Surely, the wheel must rank high among the wonders of technology. And still he gazed, and still the wonder grew, / That one small head could carry all he knew. 2 awe, astonishment, admiration, amazement, wonderment, surprise, stupefaction, fascination: Facsimile transmission, which used to excite so much wonder, is now used in offices all over the world. --v. 3 ponder, muse, meditate, think, theorize, conjecture, puzzle, query, question, inquire, be inquisitive, be curious, ask oneself, speculate, cudgel (one's) brains: I wondered if I would be invited to the dance. Have you ever wondered what makes the world go round? 4 marvel (at), goggle, gawk, gape, stare, be awed, be thunderstruck, be amazed, be astonished: We wondered at the death-defying skills of the trapeze artistes. 5 wonder about. question or doubt the sanity or reason or reasonableness of: I wondered about Tammy after that streaking episode.
wooden adj. 1 wood, woody, ligneous, xyloid: The wooden cabinet for the kitchen is almost finished. 2 stiff, rigid, artificial, clumsy, stilted, unnatural, awkward, ungainly, spiritless, unanimated, dead, lifeless, dry, passionless, unimpassioned, impassive, vacant, empty, colourless, expressionless, deadpan: The understudy gave a wooden performance as Uncle Vanya. 3 unintelligent, block-headed, stupid, dull, insensitive, slow-witted, dull-witted, obtuse, oafish, doltish, tiny-minded, dim-witted, dunderpated, Colloq thick, wooden-headed, knuckle-headed: Clancy has some pretty wooden ideas about how to run a business.
word n. 1 (little) talk, (brief) conversation, chat, discussion, consultation, dialogue, huddle, parley, tte--tte, chit-chat, confabulation, conference, interview, Colloq powwow, confab: Could I have a word with you before you leave for the day? 2 news, intelligence, information, facts, data, report, story, tidings, account, communiqu, bulletin, dispatch or despatch, advice, message, Colloq low-down, Slang info, dope, Brit gen, US poop: Have you had any word about the situation in the Middle East? 3 name, term, designation, locution, appellation, expression, phrase: What is the word for 'write' in Greek? 4 promise, pledge, vow, oath, (solemn) word of honour, undertaking, assurance, warrant, guarantee or guaranty, warranty: You have my word that I won't mention this to anyone. 5 utterance, expression, declaration, statement: Let me give you a word of warning, my friend. 6 suggestion, hint, scintilla, bit: I promise that I won't breathe a word of this to anyone. 7 command, order, signal, direction, instruction, Colloq US high sign: I shall not press the red button till you give the word. 8 in a word. succinctly, briefly, in brief, in a few words, concisely, in short, in summary, in sum, not to mince words, to make a long story short, when all is said and done, in the final analysis, not to beat about the bush, Colloq in a nutshell: His bedside manner was, in a word, menacing. 9 words. a quarrel, dispute, argument, unpleasantness: Paul and Kitty had words and are not on speaking terms. b lyrics, book, libretto, text: Did Irving Berlin write the words as well as the music to his songs? --v. 10 put (forth), say, couch, express, phrase, utter, state, term, style, set forth: Had you worded your complaint in politer language, you might have spared yourself a punch in the eye.
wordy adj. verbose, prolix, rambling, long-winded; pleonastic, redundant, garrulous, windy, talkative, loquacious: This contract is too wordy and could be cut to two pages. Try to make your replies less wordy.
worker n. labourer, working man or woman, workman, hand, employee, artisan, craftsman, tradesman, white-collar worker, blue-collar worker, proletarian, breadwinner, wage-earner: It seems unlikely that the workers would strike for longer hours and less pay.
works n.pl. 1 plant, factory, workshop, shop, mill: We were taken on a tour of the works to see how the marble is carved. 2 mechanism, machinery, workings, (moving or working) parts; clockwork, Colloq innards, insides, Slang guts: We once had a clock with all the works exposed. 3 the works. a everything, the lot, Colloq the whole kit and caboodle, the whole shooting match, everything but the kitchen sink, Chiefly US and Canadian the whole shebang: We ordered two hamburgers with the works. b a thrashing, a beating, a drubbing, a battering, a flogging, a lambasting: When he refused to tell them where the money was hidden, they gave him the works.
worldly adv. 1 mundane, earthly, terrestrial, temporal, physical, carnal, fleshly, corporeal, human; lay, non-spiritual, non-religious, civic, secular, profane: Theo indulged in worldly pleasures in the fleshpots of the continent. Veronica put aside worldly things and took the veil. 2 urbane, suave, sophisticated, cosmopolitan, worldly-wise, Slang with it, hip, cool: Behind that worldly manner is the heart of a peasant.
worried adj. fearful, apprehensive, anxious, distressed, nervous, uneasy, anguished, disquieted, agonized, agonizing, distraught, on edge, on tenterhooks, ill at ease, troubled, fretful, agitated, perturbed, upset, suffering: The two worried mothers waited at the police station for news of their children.
worsen v. 1 increase, exacerbate, heighten, intensify, aggravate: The recent rains have worsened the drainage problem. 2 weaken, deteriorate, decline, degenerate, decay, slip, sink, slide, fail, disintegrate, take a turn for the worse, get worse, go from bad to worse, Colloq go downhill: Her condition continues to worsen.
worth n. quality, merit, value, advantage, benefit, good, importance, significance, usefulness: You have underestimated Roberta's worth to the community.
worthwhile adj. 1 profitable, justifiable, productive, gainful, rewarding, fruitful, cost-effective, remunerative: Would it be worthwhile to buy up that land as a long-term investment? 2 useful, valuable, good, helpful, beneficial, worthy, beneficent, desirable, exemplary, matchless, honourable, upright, sterling, irreproachable: Brian Smith is one of the most worthwhile people I met at university.
wound n. 1 damage, hurt, injury, trauma, traumatism; laceration, puncture, cut, gash, slash, lesion, bruise, contusion: We dressed and bandaged the wounds of the victims. 2 slight, damage, injury, harm, blow, distress, mortification, torment, torture, anguish, pain, insult: Hugh takes the slightest criticism as a deep wound to his self-esteem. --v. 3 damage, harm, injure, hurt, traumatize; cut, slash, gash, lacerate, slit, stab, shoot, Colloq wing: He was wounded in the leg in the war. 4 slight, distress, damage, mortify, insult, hurt, pain, grieve, offend, aggrieve, wrong: I was terribly wounded by the things she said about me. wrap v. 1 Sometimes, wrap up. swathe, swaddle, bind, cover, enwrap, envelop, wind, enshroud, shroud, enfold, fold, muffle, enclose, sheathe, encase; pack, package, do up, gift-wrap: Wrap up well - it's cold outside. I've just finished wrapping some Christmas presents. 2 wrapped up in. immersed in, submerged in, buried in, absorbed in, engrossed in, bound up in, involved in, occupied with or by or in, engaged in, dedicated to, devoted to: While Irma is completely wrapped up in her grandchildren, Henry is wrapped up in his books. 3 wrap up. a complete, conclude, finish, end, bring to a close, terminate, wind up, settle, tidy up: We'll be able to wrap things up in an hour and go home. b Wrap up! Be silent!, Be quiet!, Stop talking!, Hold your tongue!, Slang Shut up!, Shut your face!, Shut your trap!, Shut your mouth!, Brit Put a sock in it!: He would have kept on wittering away if she hadn't told him to wrap up. --n. 4 stole, shawl, mantle, poncho, serape, cloak, cape: Sonia adjusted her evening wrap before going out to dinner.
wreak v. inflict, exercise, exert, carry out, bring (to bear), visit, effect, work, unleash, execute, impose, force, vent, let go: The tribesmen wreaked vengeance on the hill people for destroying their farms.
wreckage n. debris, fragments, remains, rubble, ruin(s): The wreckage of the building is being searched for survivors.
wrestle v. battle, fight, struggle, tussle, strive: After thirty years Garth wrestled his way to the top in the company.
wretched adj. 1 miserable, awful, terrible, atrocious, deplorable, Colloq lousy, rotten: We had the most wretched weather throughout our holiday. 2 unhappy, sad, miserable, woebegone, woeful, dismal, downhearted, heartbroken, broken-hearted, heartsick, dejected, depressed, melancholic, melancholy, mournful, disconsolate, inconsolable, doleful, cheerless, crestfallen, joyless, desolate: If you want to see a wretched human being, look at a boy whose dog is lost. 3 pitiable, pathetic, sorry, pitiful, hapless, hopeless, unfortunate, miserable: The poor in these tropical paradises are some of the most wretched people on earth. 4 vile, shameful, scurvy, underhand(ed), treacherous, contemptible, despicable, base, low, mean, paltry, mean-spirited, detestable: It was hard to see how the people could support such a wretched little demagogue.
wrinkle n. 1 crease, fold, line, furrow, crinkle, crow's-foot, corrugation, pucker, ridge: She hasn't a wrinkle on her face but then she's only nine. --v. 2 crease, fold, line, furrow, crinkle, corrugate, pucker, gather, ruck, crimp, screw up, rumple, crumple: I love the way you wrinkle your nose when you're perplexed.
write v. 1 pen, scribble, get off, dash off; indite, inscribe, make out: I was writing you a note when you phoned. She wrote out a cheque for 1000. 2 correspond (with), send a letter or a note or a postcard or US also a postal card, communicate (with): You don't write home often enough. Write and let me know when you get a job. 3 compose, create, make up, author: We saw the house in which Elgar wrote the 'Enigma' Variations. 4 write down. a register, list, catalogue, note, make a note or notation, record, transcribe, set or jot or take down, note, put in writing, put in black and white: The teacher was known for Irish bulls like, 'All absent students must write down their names'. b derogate, decry, disparage, put down, minimize, make little of, play down, detract, belittle: Cumberland's contributions have been written down by his critics. 5 write off. delete, cancel, disregard, ignore, forgive, forget (about), annul, eradicate, erase: The bad debts have been written off.
writing n. 1 handwriting, longhand, penmanship, script, calligraphy or chirography, scribble: I sometimes have trouble reading your writing. 2 Sometimes, writings. (literary) work(s), composition, theme, book, article, critique, criticism, review, editorial, column, expos, essay, poetry, poem, novel, non-fiction, fiction, document, letter, correspondence, publication, Chiefly Brit journalism leading article or leader, Chiefly US journalism op-ed article: Her writing has been widely published. Poe's writings are collected in this book. 3 literature, belles-lettres, letters: I don't agree that British writing has declined since 1900.
wry adj. 1 distorted, contorted, twisted, lopsided, deformed, crooked, aslant, one-sided, askew, bent, tilted, off-centre: He is afflicted by a rheumatic disorder, which gives his neck a wry appearance. 2 dry, droll, witty, sardonic, sarcastic, ironic(al), amusing; perverse, fey; Scots pawky: Bill has a wry sense of humour that does not appeal to everyone.
yap v. 1 bark, yelp: Their dog was yapping away all night. 2 gabble, babble, blither or blather, chatter, jabber, tattle, prattle, prate, Colloq chiefly Brit witter, natter, Slang jaw, run on, US run off at the mouth: I wish she'd stop her yapping and give me some peace. --n. 3 mouth, Slang trap, gob, US bazoo: If only Sam would shut his big yap once in a while!
yarn n. 1 thread, fibre, strand: I haven't enough yarn to finish knitting these socks. 2 tale, story, account, narrative, anecdote; tall tale, fable, fabrication, fiction, cock-and-bull story, Colloq whopper, Brit fishing story, US fish story, fish tale: The old salt had many yarns to spin during the long evenings by the fire.
yearn v. long, pine, ache, hanker, itch, hunger, thirst, crave, have a craving, desire, wish, want, fancy, prefer: I yearn to see the green-clad hills of home once more, Before my vessel bears me from this mortal shore.
yeomanly adj. yeoman, workmanlike, useful, staunch, courageous, loyal, dedicated, faithful, steadfast, unswerving, unwavering, firm, sturdy, reliable, solid: Carruthers certainly did a yeomanly job on reorganizing the system.
yet adv. 1 as yet, (up) till or until now, so far, thus far, hitherto, to the present (time): She hasn't arrived yet. 2 still, up to this time, up to now, even now, till or until now, to this day: She was there earlier and I think she's there yet. 3 moreover, furthermore, besides, further, still: He made yet another excuse. 4 in the future, in time to come, later, eventually: Despite the life I've led, I might yet get to heaven. 5 still, notwithstanding, anyway, anyhow, nonetheless, nevertheless, regardless, in spite of or despite everything, just or all the same, even so, after all, US still and all: Despite the life I've led, I might get to heaven yet. --conj. 6 notwithstanding, in spite of or despite it or that or the fact,still, nevertheless, but: He goes out every night, yet never oversleeps in the mornings.
yielding adj. 1 pliant, flexile, flexible, pliable, soft, plastic, fictile, elastic, resilient, supple, springy, bouncy, spongy, rubbery: The frame is of a yielding material that gives way under pressure. 2 accommodating, docile, submissive, amenable, tractable, compliant, obedient, flexible, acquiescent, agreeable, obliging, manageable, manipulable: He wanted a wife with ayielding temperament who would tolerate his foibles.
youth n. 1 childhood, boyhood, girlhood, young manhood, young womanhood, prepubescence, pubescence, adolescence, salad days; immaturity, minority: In our youth we do many foolish things we might later regret. 2 child, youngster, schoolchild, teenager, teen, minor, juvenile, adolescent; boy, schoolboy, stripling, young boy or man, lad, laddie, whippersnapper; girl, lass, lassie, schoolgirl, maid, maiden, Literary damsel, demoiselle, mademoiselle, Colloq kid, (little) shaver, US and Canadian tad, Slang teeny-bopper, Brit sprog: As youths, they used to spend time at rock concerts. 3 children, youngsters, juveniles, adolescents, young people, young, Colloq kids: The youth of today have little respect for their elders.
yummy adj. delicious, mouth-watering, luscious, appetizing, tasty, toothsome, savoury, delectable, ambrosial, Colloq scrumptious: At our school tuck shop we get the most yummy ice-cream.
zap v. destroy, kill, slaughter, annihilate, murder, slay, assassinate, liquidate, erase; shoot, electrocute, Slang rub out, polish off, knock off, bump off, snuff (out), waste, hit, US ice: The baddies got zapped by the ray gun, one after the other.
zealotry n. fanaticism, extremism, radicalism, bigotry, militantism, terrorism, single-mindedness, monomania, fervour, frenzy, hysteria, obsession, obsessiveness: Their attacks on innocent civilians show how far their zealotry can take them.
zero n. 1 nil, null, nothing, nought or naught, aught, cipher, Cricket duck, Colloq nix, US goose-egg, nada, niente, Slang Brit (sweet) Fanny Adams or FA, bugger-all, US zilch: Temperatures have remained below zero all day. The visiting team won three games, we won zero. 2 (rock) bottom, nadir: On a scale of one to ten, she is a zero. 3 nobody, nothing, nonentity, Slang US nebbish, bupkis: That fellow she married is a real zero. --v. 4 zero in on. focus on, pinpoint, fix on, home in on, concentrate on,bring to bear on: We zeroed in on the problem and then rapidly found the answer.
zone n. area, quarter, district, region, sector, section, sphere, belt, territory, province, realm, domain, precinct, bailiwick, department, terrain, circle, locality, locale, Slang US tur