able adj. 1 capable, qualified, competent, proficient: I feel quite able to take care of myself, thank you. He is an able tennis player. 2 talented, clever, skilled, masterful, masterly; adept, skilful, gifted, superior, expert, accomplished: There is no doubt that Wellington was a very able general.
abrupt adj. 1 sudden, hasty, quick, precipitate, snappy; unexpected, unannounced, unplanned, unforeseen, unanticipated: The general's abrupt departure has been linked with the disappearance of a great deal of money. 2 precipitous, steep, sheer, sudden: From the ridge there is an abrupt drop of 1000 metres into the valley. 3 curt, short, brusque, blunt, bluff, gruff, uncivil, rude, discourteous, impolite, unceremonious, snappish: My bank manager gave me an abrupt reply when I asked for an increased overdraft.
abysmal adj. 1 awful, appalling, dreadful, terrible, profound: The government of Nero presented a spectacle of abysmal degradation. 2 abyssal, bottomless, profound, unfathomable, unfathomed: The abysmal depths have been plumbed in the diving bell.
accomplished adj. consummate, perfect, expert, adept, skilful, proficient, practised, gifted, talented, skilled, professional: Did you know that she is also an accomplished flautist?
achieve v. 1 accomplish, carry out, execute, succeed in, complete, fulfil, bring off or about; realize, effect: When the fund reaches its goal, we shall have achieved our purpose. 2 accomplish, attain, reach, gain, get, acquire, win, obtain: She achieved her ends by cheating and conniving.
actually adv. really, in reality, in fact, in actuality, in point of fact, in truth, absolutely, as a matter of fact, indeed, truly, literally: The interest rates actually charged by banks may vary from those quoted publicly.
admirable adj. wonderful, awe-inspiring, excellent, estimable, splendid, marvellous, superior, first-rate, first-class, of the first water, great, fine, Colloq top-drawer, ripsnorting, A-1, Brit smashing, magic: His performance in Harper's new play is admirable.
adventure n. 1 exploit, escapade, danger, peril; affair, undertaking, feat, deed; experience, incident, event, occurrence, happening, episode: We shared many wartime adventures. 2 speculation, hazard, chance, risk, venture, enterprise: I lost a fortune in some of his financial adventures. --v. 3 venture, hazard, risk, imperil, endanger, jeopardize, threaten: Would you adventure your pension money in such a scheme? 4 dare, wager, bet, gamble, stake, try one's luck, Brit punt: She adventured a whole week's salary on the pools.
affected adj. 1 unnatural, artificial, specious, stilted, stiff, studied, awkward, non-natural, contrived, mannered: Dryden found Shakespeare's style stiff and affected. 2 pretended, simulated, hollow, assumed, feigned, fake, faked, false, counterfeit, insincere, spurious, sham, bogus, Colloq phoney or US also phony: The heir's affected grief concealed his secret exultation. 3 pretentious, pompous, high-sounding, mincing, niminy-piminy, Colloq la-di-da orlah-di-dah or la-de-da: Oliver's affected airs were enough to make his classmates detest him. 4 attacked, seized, afflicted, stricken, gripped, touched; diseased, laid hold of: Her affected lungs never quite recovered. 5 afflicted, moved, touched, stirred, distressed, troubled, upset, hurt; influenced, swayed, impressed, struck, played or worked or acted upon: Many affected theatre-goers enjoyed her performances.
aggressive adj. 1 combative, warlike, martial, belligerent, bellicose, pugnacious, quarrelsome, disputatious, litigious; hostile, unfriendly: The Germanic tribes were known to the Romans as aggressive and hardened warriors. 2 forward, assertive, forceful, bold, Colloq pushy: Dennis's aggressive nature may yet make him a good salesman.
ail v. 1 trouble, afflict, affect, bother, distress, upset, worry, make ill or sick, pain, hurt: I cannot imagine what ails him, and the doctor can find nothing wrong. 2 suffer, be or feel ill or poorly or unwell or indisposed, US be sick: Granny has been ailing lately.
allege v. declare, aver, state, assert, charge, affirm, avow, asseverate, depose, say: The guard alleged that he had caught the boy climbing in a basement window.
alternation n. rotation, succession; exchange, interchange: In a temperate climate there is the advantage of the alternation of the seasons.
ambitious adj. 1 aspiring, hopeful; enthusiastic: My son, I am just as ambitious for you as you are for yourself. 2 energetic, enterprising, vigorous, zealous, enthusiastic, eager: We prefer ambitious young people to those who are seeking a sinecure. 3 greedy, avaricious, overzealous, overambitious, Colloq pushy, yuppy: Howard is a trifle too ambitious, expecting to be department head after only one year.
anachronism n. misdate, misdating, misapplication; antedate, antedating, prochronism; postdate, postdating, parachronism: The poster showing Cleopatra smoking a cigarette is an anachronism - a prochronism, to be specific.
announcement n. 1 declaration, pronouncement, proclamation, statement: Ladies and gentlemen, I wish to make an announcement. 2 notification, notice, word: We received an announcement of the wedding but no invitation. 3 commercial, advertisement, advert, ad, spot: The window was filled with announcements of houses for sale. 4 report, bulletin, communiqu, disclosure: An announcement has just been received from the fire-fighters at the scene.
apologetic adj. regretful, sorry, contrite, remorseful, penitent, rueful, repentant, conscience-stricken: The lad was most apologetic for having broken the window.
appoint v. 1 fix, set, settle, determine, ordain, authorize, establish, destine, arrange, assign, allot, prescribe, decree: The time appointed for the execution has been delayed. 2 name, designate, nominate, elect; assign, delegate, commission, deputize; select, choose: I was delighted to have been appointed as chairman. 3 equip, fit out, furnish, decorate: They live comfortably in a well-appointed home in the suburbs.
ardour n. eagerness, desire, zeal, fervency, burning desire, keenness, fervour, passion, heat, warmth; enthusiasm: Bernadette has supported the cause with great ardour.
arrive v. 1 come, make one's appearance, appear, turn up, Colloq show up; Slang hit (town), blow in: She arrived only two minutes before the plane was to take off. 2 succeed, prosper, get ahead (in the world), reach the top, Colloq make it, make the grade, get somewhere, get there: Yuppies believe that once they own a fur coat and a Mercedes, they've arrived. 3 arrive at. come or get to, reach; attain: I think that Crumley has arrived at the stage in his career where he merits a promotion.
assemble v. 1 convene, gather, call or bring or get together, convoke, summon, muster, marshal, rally, levy, round up, collect, congregate, forgather or foregather; meet: The forces were assembled along the waterfront. A small crowd assembled at the airport. 2 accumulate, gather, amass, collect, bring or group or lump together, compile, unite, join or draw together: The paintings were assembled from many sources. 3 construct, put together, erect, set up, fit or join or piece together, connect, fabricate, manufacture, make: The sculpture was assembled from so-called objets trouvs , or 'found' objects.
astonish v. amaze, surprise, shock, astound, stun, stagger, dumbfound or dumfound, bowl over, floor, stupefy, daze, Colloq flabbergast: She astonished the audience with her gymnastic skill. I was astonished when told my wife had given birth to quintuplets.
attendant adj. 1 waiting upon, accompanying, following; resultant, resulting, related, consequent, concomitant, depending, accessory: The circumstances attendant on your acceptance of the post are immaterial. --n. 2 escort, servant, menial, helper, usher or usherette, chaperon orchaperone; aide, subordinate, underling, assistant; follower, Derogatory lackey, flunkey, slave; Colloq US cohort: He dismissed his attendants and entered the church alone.
authoritarian adj. dictatorial, imperious, totalitarian, autocratic, arbitrary, absolute,dogmatic, domineering, strict, severe, unyielding, tyrannical, despotic, Colloq bossy: Why do people ever elect an authoritarian government?
awesome adj. awe-inspiring, awful, imposing, amazing, wonderful, breathtaking, marvellous, wondrous, moving, stirring, affecting, overwhelming, formidable, daunting, dreadful, fearsome, fearful, frightening, horrifying, terrifying, terrible; unbelievable, incredible; alarming, shocking, stunning, stupefying, astounding, astonishing,: The eruption of Vesuvius in AD 67 must have been a truly awesome spectacle.
bag n. 1 sack, shopping bag, reticule, string bag, Chiefly Brit carrier bag, Scots or dialect poke, pocket: They have helpers at the supermarket who will carry your bags to your car for you. 2 baggage, luggage, valise, satchel, grip, suitcase, overnight bag, carry-on luggage or bag, Gladstone bag, carpet-bag, portmanteau, toilet kit or case, sponge bag; briefcase, attach case, dispatch- or despatch-case: Boarding in London I flew to Buenos Aires while my bag went to Seoul. 3 purse, handbag, evening bag, wallet, Highland dress sporran: She reached into her bag and felt the gun that the Commander had given her. 4 crone, hag, beast, ogress, gorgon, nightmare, witch, harridan, Archaic beldam, Slang old bat, dog, monster, US two-bagger: Derek has been romancing some old bag for her money. 5 occupation, hobby, avocation, business, vocation, department, concern, affair, Colloq lookout, worry, Slang thing: Peter's bag at the moment is learning to play the violin. --v. 6 catch, trap, ensnare, snare, entrap, capture, land; kill, shoot: We bagged six pheasants and two partridges this morning.
bargain n. 1 agreement, contract, understanding, arrangement, covenant, pact, compact, settlement, transaction, deal: We made a bargain - I would provide the materials and he would do the work. 2 good deal, Colloq give-away, US steal: If you paid only 100 for this painting, you got a real bargain. --v. 3 negotiate, trade, haggle, barter, dicker, chaffer: We bargained far into the night, and finally came to an agreement after eight hours of discussion. 4 bargain for. expect, count on, anticipate, foresee, take into account, allow for, be prepared for: Even though the storm had been predicted, it was windier than we had bargained for.
beacon n. signal, sign, fire, light, bonfire, flare, signal fire, Very light, rocket; lighthouse, pharos: Beacons blazed at the tops of the hills to spread the news of the victory. The drunkard's nose shone like a beacon.
bedlam n. pandemonium, uproar, hubbub, commotion, confusion, tumult, turmoil, furore or US furor, chaos; madhouse: The chancellor's announcement created instant bedlam in the Commons.
behove v. US behoove; be required of, be incumbent on, be proper of, be fitting of or for, befit; be advisable for, be worthwhile for, be expeditious for or of, be advantageous to or for, be useful to or for, be beneficial to or for: It behoves you to be respectful to the chairman of the board.
bend n. 1 curve, turn, turning, corner; bow, angle, crook, hook, curvature, flexure: Go left at the bend in the road. If you put a bend in a wire hanger, you can fish out the obstruction. --v. 2 arch, bow, curve, crook: Soak the branch in water and it will bend easily. Stop bending my arm - it hurts! 3 bow; curtsy or curtsey; kowtow, salaam; kneel, genuflect: The cannibal bent down before a pile of skulls. 4 incline, channel, focus, direct, steer, set; fix: He bent his attention on more important matters. She bent her steps towards the cemetery. 5 submit, bow, yield, give way, be pliant or subservient or tractable: The cabinet bends to the will of the prime minister. 6 incline, turn, deflect: As you can see, the ray is bent by the lens.
beset v. encompass, surround, besiege; assail, attack, harass, harry, hector, bother, afflict, trouble: She was beset by all the problems involved in having a job and a family.
biased adj. biased, prejudiced, partial; warped, distorted, jaundiced: I don't want to listen to your biased opinions about women's rights.
bite v. 1 nip; chew, gnaw: That dog of yours bit a piece out of my ankle. 2 sting: She was bitten by a mosquito. --n. 3 mouthful, morsel, scrap, bit, piece, taste; snack, Slang nosh: The survivors hadn't had a bite of food for three days. Come round for a bite on Sunday evening before the concert. 4 sting: These mosquito bites itch horribly.
blas adj. 1 bored, jaded, weary, unimpressed, ennuy: Her blas attitude does little to endear her at job interviews. 2 indifferent, cool, superior, supercilious, sophisticated, unmoved, nonchalant, emotionless, phlegmatic, apathetic, pococurante, carefree, light-hearted, insouciant: His blas behaviour hides his basic feelings of insecurity.
blithe adj. 1 blissful, happy, cheerful, joyous, merry, light-hearted, well-pleased, delighted, gay, joyful, elated, jubilant: His spirit was blithe and his heart unquenchable. 2 happy-go-lucky, insouciant, heedless, carefree, unconcerned, blas, casual, detached, indifferent, uncaring, careless: She goes through life with a blithe disregard for the feelings of others.
blurt v. Usually, blurt out. burst out with, utter; reveal, disclose, give away, divulge, Colloq blab: She blurted out the name of her accomplice.
bolster v. support, prop (up), brace, shore up, buttress, uphold, back (up), reinforce, aid, help, assist, further, advance: The miners cited a lack of safety measures to bolster their arguments.
boomerang v. rebound, recoil, backfire, miscarry, redound: His plan boomeranged.
bosom n. 1 breast, chest, bust; Slang boobs, knockers, tits, titties, pair, jugs, Brit Bristols: The sex goddess's lack of talent was more than compensated for by her ample bosom. 2 midst, interior, heart, core, centre: She was welcomed into the bosom of the family as if she had been their own child. 3 soul, heart, heart of hearts, bowels, blood, Colloq gut: I know he loves me, I can feel it in my bosom. --adj. 4 close, intimate, dear, beloved, cherished, boon, special, confidential: We were once bosom companions.
bounty n. 1 generosity, liberality, munificence, charitableness, philanthropy, charity, unselfishness, beneficence, goodness: The poor used to be dependent on the bounty of the local gentry. 2 gift, present, largesse, grant, subsidy, endowment, subvention: People should be given work and not live off the bounty of the state. 3 reward, award, premium, bonus, gratuity: In America they paid a bounty of 50 for every dead wolf.
braggart n. boaster, bragger, braggadocio, windbag, peacock, show-off, Scaramouch or Scaramouche, Slang big-mouth, loud-mouth, gasbag: That braggart William Smith talks about himself incessantly.
brazen adj. brassy, shameless, barefaced, brash, outspoken, forward, immodest, unashamed, audacious, candid, open, unabashed, brazen-faced; rude, impudent, impertinent, insolent, saucy, Colloq cheeky, fresh, US sassy: That's the last time I'll let that brazen hussy near my husband!
bric--brac n. bric-a-brac, curiosities, knick-knacks, collectables or collectibles, trinkets, gewgaws, gimcracks; bibelots, curios, objets d'art, objets de vertu: On Saturday she went to an antiques fair and bought still more bric--brac to clutter up the house.
brittle adj. 1 fragile, frangible, breakable; friable: My fingernails become brittle in the cold and break easily. 2 frail, weak, delicate, sensitive, fragile, insecure: She might seem strong, but she has a very brittle nature and is easily upset.
brother n. sibling; relation, relative, kin, kinsman; fellow, fellow-man, fellow-clansman, fellow-citizen, fellow-countryman, fellow-creature; associate, colleague, confrre, companion, Colloq pal, chum, Brit and Australian mate, US buddy: Some day, perhaps all men will regard each other as brothers.
buckle n. 1 clasp, fastener, clip, fastening, hook, catch: The buckle broke on my belt and my trousers fell down. --v. 2 collapse, cave in, crumple, bend, warp, distort, twist, bulge: The support gave way and the entire wall buckled.
buoy n. 1 (navigational or channel) mark or marker, float; nun (-buoy), can (-buoy), bell (buoy), gong (-buoy), siren, signal, mooring-buoy, spar-buoy, lollipop: Returning to port, always leave the red buoys to starboard. --v. 2 Often, buoy up. lift, raise, elevate, support, hearten, sustain, keep up: We sang songs to buoy up our spirits while the rescuers dug their way towards us.
busy adj. 1 occupied, engaged, employed, involved: I can't talk to you now, I'm busy. 2 working, industrious, active, diligent; bustling, hectic, lively, hustling, energetic: Are you very busy at the office these days? The diamond district is certainly a busy place. 3 ornate, elaborate, detailed, complicated, complex, (over-)decorated, intricate, Baroque, Rococo: Some of the late Victorian architecture is far too busy for my taste. --v. 4 occupy, involve, employ, divert, absorb, engross: She has busied herself with charity work to get her mind off the tragedy.
byword n. proverb, proverbial saying, parable, maxim, adage, motto, slogan, apophthegm or apothegm, aphorism, catchword, catch-phrase: My byword has always been, Honesty is the best policy.
calamitous adj. distressful, dire, tragic, disastrous, destructive, awful, devastating, fatal, deadly, pernicious, cataclysmic, catastrophic, ruinous, dreadful, terrible: They seemed unaware of the calamitous consequences of what they were doing to the environment.
camp n. 1 camping-ground, camp-ground, bivouac, encampment, camp-site; settlement; camping-site, Brit caravan site: The name 'Chester' derives from Latin castrum, meaning 'camp', for the city was originally the site of a Roman camp. Is there a camp where we can stay overnight? 2 faction, set, coterie, clique, group, party, body: On this issue, the politicians are divided into two camps. --v. 3 encamp, pitch camp, tent: Our family likes to go camping in the mountains during the summer. 4 lodge, bivouac, settle: The platoon camped by the river. 5 camp out. Slang crash: Mind if I camp out in your pad tonight?
capacity n. 1 volume, content, size, dimensions; room, space: What is the capacity of this bottle in litres? The car is of sufficient capacity to hold only four adults. 2 potential, ability, capability, competence, intelligence, wit, brain(s), talent, aptitude, acumen, understanding, sense, judgement, perspicacity, perceptiveness, perception, mother wit, intellect, genius, skill, gift, faculty, power, potential, Colloq chiefly US right stuff, the goods: They don't yet have the capacity to absorb advanced theory. 3 position, condition, character, place, post, role, job, office, duty, responsibility, province, sphere, function; Law competency, qualification: She has every right to sign cheques in her capacity as director.
careen v. heel over, keel over; US loosely career, sway, tip, pitch, veer, swerve, lurch: We hauled out the boat, careened her, and proceeded to caulk her seams.
carte blanche n. licence, permission, sanction, free rein, authority, discretion: She was given carte blanche to spend the money any way she wished.
categorical adj. direct, explicit, express, unconditional, firm, positive, unreserved, unrestricted, absolute, outright, downright, unequivocal, unambiguous, specific; emphatic, unqualified, authoritative, dogmatic, Technical apodeictic or apodictic: His denial was clear and categorical.
celebrant n. officiant, official; priest: The celebrant at High Mass was the archbishop.
certain adj. 1 determined, set, fixed, predetermined, decided, settled, firm, stable, invariable, established, standard, constant, unchanging, steady, unfluctuating, non-fluctuating, traditional: He agreed to pay a certain yearly rent. She met him there every day at a certain time. 2 sure, unerring, definite, dependable, trustworthy, unfailing, infallible, reliable, assured, guaranteed: How do you know that the dividend is certain? 3 sure, inevitable, inescapable, destined, predestined, ineluctable, inexorable, unavoidable, definite, firm; unchanging, changeless, infallible, permanent, Colloq on the cards, a sure thing, US in the cards: It is not always certain that justice will triumph. Nothing is certain but death and taxes. 4 indubitable, indisputable, undisputed, undoubted, sure, doubtless, unequivocal, incontestable, undeniable, incontrovertible, absolute, irrefutable, unquestionable, unquestioned, unarguable, valid: It is certain only that we exist, according to Descartes. 5 confident; assured, sure, positive, definite: I am certain that she did not steal the money. 6 specific, particular, definite; unnamed, unspecified, non-specified, non-specific: He gave us certain information which we now have reason to doubt.
chaos n. formlessness, disorder, confusion; pandemonium, bedlam, turmoil, tumult; entropy: The universe arose out of chaos. If you want to see chaos, look in any teenager's bedroom. There was chaos as the bank closed its doors and ceased trading.
chaste adj. 1 pure, virginal, virgin, celibate, abstinent, continent, virtuous, undefiled, stainless, unstained, unsullied, unblemished, decent, clean, good, wholesome, moral: Only a knight who was wholly chaste would find the Grail. 2 subdued, severe, restrained, unadorned, austere, unembellished, simple, pure, undecorated, clean: In some respects, modern architecture emulates the chaste style of the ancient Egyptians.
chic adj. 1 stylish, fashionable, la mode, modish, smart, tasteful, elegant; sophisticated; Colloq trendy: Susanna was always a chic dresser. --n. 2 style, fashion, good taste, tastefulness, elegance, stylishness, modishness: There is an air of chic about him that repels many men but attracts many women.
chivalry n. knight-errantry; honour, bravery, courage, courtesy, politeness, courtliness, gallantry, nobility, virtuousness, righteousness, justness, fairness, impartiality, equitableness: All the noble sentiments blended together constitute chivalry.
circuit n. 1 compass, circumference, perimeter, periphery, girth, border, boundary, edge, limit, ambit, margin, outline, confine(s), bound, pale: The circuit of the area amounts to 72 miles. 2 round, tour, ambit, circle, orbit, course, lap: The rider completed the circuit of the ranch, mending the fence as he went.
clap v. 1 applaud; cheer, acclaim: Everyone clapped when the boxer climbed into the ring. 2 slap, strike, pat: He clapped me on the shoulder in the friendliest way. 3 put, place, slap, fling, toss, cast , Colloq stick: He had no sooner set foot in the town when he was clapped in jail. 4 impose, lay, apply: The magistrate clapped a severe fine on me for speeding. --n. 5 crack, slap, report, crash, bang, snap: There was a loud clap of thunder, making the house shake. clapper n. tongue: We attached a rope to the clapper of the bell.
clerical adj. 1 ecclesiastical, churchly, pastoral, sacerdotal, priestly, hieratic, rabbinical, ministerial, monastic, apostolic, prelatic, papal, pontifical, episcopal, canonical: He was wearing his clerical vestments. 2 white-collar, office, professional, secretarial, stenographic, accounting, bookkeeping: He runs the shop and his wife has the clerical responsibilities.
clod n. 1 lump, mass, gob, wad, hunk, chunk; piece of sod or turf; Colloq glob: A clod of earth was stuck between the spikes of my golf shoes. 2 idiot, fool, dolt, blockhead, simpleton, dunce, dope, oaf, Neanderthal, lout, ass, boor, clown, ninny, ninny-hammer, bumpkin, clodhopper, Slang vegetable, US and Canadian jerk: He felt a bit of a clod standing there with no idea which way to go.
coarse adj. 1 rough, uneven, scratchy, prickly, bristly; crude, rough-hewn, unfinished, unrefined: He has a three-day coarse growth of beard. The surface on the furniture is still too coarse. 2 rude, boorish, loutish, crude, ill-mannered, unpolished, rough, uncouth, impolite, uncivil, unrefined: Nigel's behaviour is coarse, and he spits when he talks. 3 rude, indecent, improper, indelicate, obscene, lewd, vulgar, gross, smutty, dirty, filthy, foul, offensive, lascivious, ribald, bawdy; foul-mouthed: Don't use that kind of coarse language with me. 4 inferior, low-quality, second-rate, shoddy, tawdry, trashy; kitschy: That shop stocks only the coarsest merchandise.
coincidental adj. chance, lucky or unlucky, fortuitous, accidental, unexpected, unpredicted, unpredictable, unforeseen: It was entirely coincidental that we were on the same train.
combat n. 1 fight, encounter, engagement, duel, battle, conflict, war, warfare; skirmish: The two men were locked in single combat. 2 struggle, contest, strife, controversy, dispute, quarrel, disagreement, altercation, vendetta, feud: There was endless combat between father and son. 3 opposition, difference, confrontation: The combat between good and evil can never end. 4 action, fighting, battle, war: He was in combat on three occasions. Have you seen any combat? --v. 5 fight, (do) battle, war, clash, contend, duel, joust, wrestle, come to blows, spar, grapple (with): The soldiers are combating hand to hand in the trenches. 6 fight, struggle or strive against, contest, oppose, defy, enter the lists against, withstand: There was broad support for measures to combat crime and pollution.
committee n. council, board, cabinet, panel, body, commission: They have set up a committee to oversee park planning.
compile v. collect, put together, gather, accumulate, assemble, amass, collate, organize, order, systematize; anthologize, compose: He has compiled a large butterfly collection. Every year she compiles a volume of the best stories.
compound v. 1 put together, combine, mix, concoct, compose, make (up), formulate, blend: They compound curry powder from different spices. 2 blend, merge, coalesce, combine, unite, fuse or US also fuze, come or go together: Sometimes two words compound to form one, as in 'ingrown', 'outgrow', and 'uptake'. 3 aggravate, intensify, exacerbate, heighten, augment, add to, worsen, increase; enhance, multiply: Demanding your money back now will only compound the problem. --adj. 4 intricate, complex, involved, complicated; composite, multiple, multiform, multifaceted, Technical parasynthetic, parathetic: The compound eye of the fly / Lets it see far better than I. A compound sentence is composed of two or more clauses joined by one or more coordinating conjunctions, express or understood. --n. 5 composite, blend, synthesis, combination, consolidation, Technical parasynthesis, parathesis; mixture, amalgam, alloy, merging, merger, mix: Table salt is a compound of the metallic element sodium and the gaseous element chlorine. 'Slithy' is a compound of 'slimy' and 'writhe'.
concise adj. brief, terse, laconic, compact, direct, succinct, epigrammatic, cogent, pithy, compendious, summary, epigrammatic, trenchant, compressed, condensed, short; shortened, abridged, curtailed, abbreviated: He gave a concise summary of the findings. This is a concise edition of the dictionary.
conform v. 1 comply (with), follow, observe, obey, respect, abide by, adapt or adjust (to): We agree to conform to the rules of the club. 2 accord (with), agree (with), concur (with), coincide (with), correspond (with), harmonize (with), square (with), match, tally (with), fit (in with), be consistent (with), be in accord or in accordance (with): Their behaviour did not conform with what is expected in such circles. The two plans do not conform.
conservative adj. 1 reactionary, right, right-wing, rightist, Tory: In his conservative view, no change is ever for the better. 2 cautious, careful, prudent, moderate, temperate, middle-of-the-road, sober, stable; unprogressive, orthodox, traditional, conformist, hidebound, conventional, standard, fundamentalist, true-blue, dyed in the wool: The conservative approach would be to study the problem before making a change. The conservative members voted against electing certain members to the club. --n. 3 reactionary, rightist, right-winger, Tory, fundamentalist; moderate, middle-of-the-roader: He's a conservative and favours a classical education. conserve v. 1 keep, preserve, hold on to, save, spare, reserve: Conserve your energy for later, when we get near the top. 2 preserve, maintain, keep up, take care of: These buildings should be conserved for later generations.
consultant n. 1 physician, doctor, specialist, expert: You ought to get the opinion of another consultant. 2 adviser or advisor, expert, counsellor or US counselor: Our financial consultant tells us how to handle the company funds.
continual adj. constant, incessant, perpetual, non-stop, persistent, uninterrupted, regular, steady, unbroken, unceasing, ceaseless, constant, eternal, unremitting, interminable, endless, unending; Loosely continuous: She has this continual ringing in her ears.
converge v. come or go together, meet, join, unite, merge, coincide; blend: The roads converge in the valley.
core n. 1 centre, heart, middle, nucleus, inside(s): Remove the core of the apple first. 2 essence, marrow, heart, pith, gist, quintessence, sum and substance: The core of the problem is her refusal to consider any alternative. --v. 3 pit, seed: The pie might have tasted better if you'd cored the apples first.
counsellor n. adviser or advisor, counsel, lawyer, Brit counsellor-at-law, barrister, US counselor, counselor-at-law, attorney: We have retained Vestley and Stock as our counsellors.
cowardly adj. timid, fearful, frightened, afraid, scared, faint-hearted, timorous, chicken-hearted, chicken-livered, lily-livered, white-livered, craven, namby-pamby, dastardly, pusillanimous, vitelline, Slang yellow, yellow-bellied: The cowardly rascals ran from the battle.
creation n. 1 beginning, origin, birth, start, inception, genesis, making, formation: The creation of the lake began with the damming of the stream. 2 the world, the universe, the cosmos: He was the most wicked man in the history of all creation.
crippled adj. 1 disabled, lame, handicapped, incapacitated; weakened, weak, debilitated: He takes care of his crippled mother. The crippled party platform succumbed to attack from the far left. 2 damaged, immobilized, inoperative: The crew stayed with the crippled vessel.
crumble v. disintegrate, fragment, break apart, break up, shiver, come to pieces: Acid rain has caused the stone faade to crumble. In the face of the attack, his resolve crumbled.
curiosity n. 1 inquisitiveness, interest: His insatiable curiosity next led him to study astronomy. 2 snooping, prying, peeping, intrusiveness, meddlesomeness, interference, Colloq nosiness, Nosy Parkerism: Curiosity killed the cat. 3 curio, oddity, rarity, conversation piece, objet de virtu or vertu, objet d'art, found object; bric--brac or bric-a-brac, knick-knack, bauble, trinket, gewgaw: The shop sells curiosities, like goblets made from ostrich eggs. In those days, every house had a curiosity cabinet.
cycle n. 1 round, rotation, circle, course; series, sequence, run, succession, pattern: We must learn to break the continuous cycles of war and peace. --v. 2 recur, return, rotate, recycle, circle: The water from the fountain is cycled back to the reservoir.
dangerous adj. 1 risky, perilous, hazardous, unsafe, precarious, rickety, Colloq chancy, iffy: Rock-climbing is very dangerous. 2 threatening, menacing, harmful, treacherous: He is a dangerous criminal, wanted for murder.
dawdle v. linger, loiter, straggle, delay, procrastinate, dally, lounge, laze, idle, lag, lie about, waste time, Colloq dilly-dally, shilly-shally: We have to catch the next train, so stop dawdling.
dear adj. 1 beloved, loved, adored, darling, precious, cherished, prized, valued, treasured, favoured, favourite, pet, esteemed, admired, venerated, honoured: He was my nearest and dearest friend. 2 expensive, costly, high-priced, highly priced, Colloq pricey: Tomatoes are much too dear at this time of the year. --n. 3 darling, sweetheart, beloved, love, true-love, sweet, honey, precious, pet, favourite, treasure, precious, Colloq sweetie, sweetie-pie, Slang baby: My dear, I hope we'll be together always. --adv. 4 dearly; at great cost or expense, at a high or excessive price: That little error will cost you dear, my friend.
decent adj. 1 becoming, suitable, appropriate, proper, seemly, fitting: Despite the life she led, the woman should have a decent burial. 2 seemly, decorous, tasteful, dignified, mannerly, nice, clean, respectable, polite, modest, presentable, acceptable: Hereafter, you will use only decent language when speaking to me! 3 adequate, acceptable, passable, fair, competent, mediocre, middling, fair to middling, moderate, respectable, not bad, ordinary, so so, not outstanding, unimpressive, average, neither here nor there, all right, reasonable, tolerable, satisfactory, good enough, Colloq OK or okay: Sales in the first quarter were decent but hardly outstanding. 4 courteous, proper, right, fair, honest, honourable, friendly, considerate, gracious, nice, thoughtful, obliging, kind, generous, accommodating: You can count on David to do the decent thing. 5 chaste, pure, virtuous, modest, well-bred, decorous, well brought up, nice, respectable: Caroline is a decent girl, but no great brain or beauty.
decrease v. 1 diminish, reduce, decline, lessen, lower, abate, fall off, shrink, shrivel (up), contract, dwindle, ebb, subside, wane, taper off, de-escalate, slacken, let up, ease (off or up), curtail, cut (down or back), Colloq run out of steam, US run out of gas: Demand for tickets to rock concerts has decreased over the years. The number of applicants for work is decreasing. --n. 2 diminution, reduction, decline, lessening, lowering, abatement, falling off, shrinking, shrivelling, contraction, decrement, dwindling, ebb, subsidence, tapering off, wane, de-escalation, slackening, easing (off or up), curtailment, cut, cut-back: There has been no noticeable decrease in the price of houses in the south-east. Have you noticed the decrease in arrests for dangerous driving?
defecate v. void (excrement), move the bowels, excrete, eliminate, evacuate (the bowels), have a (bowel) movement or bm, open the bowels, relieve oneself, Babytalk do number two , Euphemistic go to the men's or ladies' (room), go to the toilet or bathroom or lavatory, excuse (oneself), wash (one's) hands, go to the bathroom, go to the powder-room; Mincing go to the little boys' or girls' room; Colloq Brit spend a penny, Colloq Brit go to the loo, pass a motion, Taboo slang (take a) crap or shit: The first symptoms of bowel disease are problems when defecating.
definition n. 1 delineation, delimitation, demarcation, outlining; acutance, resolution, distinctness, clarity, sharpness, focus, precision: The definition at the edge of the photograph is fuzzy. 2 description, explanation, explication, clarification, statement (of meaning), sense, meaning: How many definitions are there for the word 'good'?
delectation n. delight, enjoyment, amusement, entertainment, diversion, pleasure, satisfaction: For your delectation, Le Moulin Rouge presents La Goulue!
demand v. 1 require, order, bid, call (for); insist, command: I demand that you retract that remark! She demanded to know where he was going. 2 claim, ask (for), require, insist on; exact: They had paid for tickets and demanded entrance. 3 require, call for, need, want, necessitate, cry out for: This superb dish demands an excellent claret. 4 ask (for), inquire or enquire, request; requisition: We demanded help from the police. --n. 5 request, bid, behest, requisition, order, insistence; outcry: Our demand for service went unheeded. 6 want, need, requirement, desire; market (demand), marketability; consumer or customer acceptance: The demand for our products is low at the moment. 7 in demand. wanted, needed, requested, coveted, popular, sought after, desired, desirable, Brit in request, US on request: Bright graduates are always in demand. 8 on demand. on call, on request, on presentation, when requested or required; at once, immediately, without delay: These notes are payable on demand.
deny v. 1 contradict, gainsay, refute, controvert, disaffirm, disclaim, confute, negate, dispute: She denies ever having met the defendant. 2 reject, refuse, withhold, forbid, turn down, decline, disallow; recall, revoke, recant: He asserts that his right to counsel was denied. 3 disavow, repudiate, renounce, disown, forswear, disclaim: The witch-doctor demanded sacrifices, saying that the angry gods would not be denied.
deride v. mock, ridicule, scoff (at), jeer (at), laugh (at), make fun or sport (of), tease, taunt, twit, poke fun (at), make a laughing-stock (of), sneer (at), scorn, flout, disdain, pooh-pooh, belittle, diminish, disparage, laugh off, Brit rally, Colloq knock, Brit take the mickey or micky out of: His classmates had always derided his attempts at getting anywhere with the girls.
deserve v. merit, earn, be entitled to, be worthy of, rate, warrant, justify: You ought to be nicer to him - he really doesn't deserve such unkind treatment.
despise v. disdain, scorn, look down on or upon, be contemptuous of, sneer at, spurn, contemn; hate, loathe, detest, abhor: She despised her servants and treated them badly. He despised anyone who had not been to university.
detach v. separate, uncouple, part, disjoin, disengage, disunite, disconnect, disentangle, free, unfasten, undo, cut off, remove: She carefully detached the printer lead from the back of the computer.
detour n. 1 diversion, deviation, circuitous route or way, roundabout way, bypass: The detour took us five miles out of our way. --v. 2 deviate, turn (away) from, divert, bypass: I detoured from the main road and took a short cut.
devote v. 1 apply, appropriate, assign, allot, commit, allocate, set aside or apart, put away or aside, dedicate, consecrate: Each of the chapels was devoted to a separate sect. 2 apply, pledge, dedicate, commit, give up: She has devoted her life to helping others.
dictator n. autocrat, absolute ruler or monarch, despot, overlord, oppressor, tsar or czar, tyrant, Fuehrer or Fhrer: Among monarchs, Henry VIII certainly could have been characterized as a dictator.
dignify v. distinguish, ennoble, elevate, raise, exalt, glorify, upraise, lift, uplift, enhance, improve, better, upgrade: The critic wrote that he wouldn't deign to dignify the book by calling it a novel.
diplomacy n. 1 tact, tactfulness, adroitness, discretion: She was able to get rid of that rude boor with her customary diplomacy. 2 statecraft, statesmanship, negotiation; intrigue, Machiavellianism, machination, manoeuvring or maneuvering: Cardinal Richelieu is considered the founder of modern diplomacy.
disappointed adj. 1 frustrated, unsatisfied, dissatisfied, disillusioned, disenchanted, discouraged, downhearted, disheartened, downcast, saddened, unhappy, dejected, discontented, let down: There will be a lot of disappointed children at Christmas this year. 2 foiled, thwarted, balked, defeated, undone, failed, let down: Though she campaigned energetically, Theodora was among the disappointed candidates.
discomfit v. 1 embarrass, abash, disconcert, disturb, confuse, make uneasy or uncomfortable, discompose, fluster, ruffle, confound, perturb, upset, worry, unsettle, unnerve, Colloq rattle, US faze, discombobulate: Being short, she was discomfited by references to her height. 2 frustrate, foil, thwart, baffle, check, defeat, trump, outdo, outwit, overcome: Discomfited by her violent reaction, her attacker fled.
discredit v. 1 detract, disparage, defame, dishonour, disgrace, degrade, bring into disfavour or disrepute, deprecate, demean, lower, devalue, depreciate, devaluate, belittle, diminish, reduce; slur, slander, vilify, calumniate, sully, smear, blacken, taint, tarnish, besmirch, smirch, stigmatize, asperse, malign, libel: Both of them were thoroughly discredited by the scandal. 2 disbelieve, deny, dispute, doubt, question, raise doubts about, distrust, mistrust, give no credit or credence to: As he's a known liar, you can discredit whatever he tells you. 3 disprove, reject, refute, invalidate; mock, ridicule: The phlogiston theory is generally discredited by most modern chemists. --n. 4 dishonour, degradation, disfavour, disrepute, ill repute, disgrace, ignominy, infamy, odium, stigma, shame, smear, slur, scandal, obloquy, opprobrium, humiliation: Her performance has brought discredit to all female saxophonists. 5 damage, harm, reflection, slur, aspersion, slander, defamation, blot, brand, tarnish, blemish, taint: The discredit to her reputation is irreparable. 6 doubt, scepticism, dubiousness, doubtfulness, qualm, scruple, question, incredulity, suspicion, distrust, mistrust: The new evidence throws discredit on the validity of the previous testimony.
disenchanted adj. disillusioned, disabused, undeceived, disappointed; blas, indifferent, jaundiced, sour(ed), cynical: I'm afraid she's now thoroughly disenchanted with her job.
disinfect v. clean, cleanse, purify, purge, sanitize, fumigate, decontaminate, sterilize: The bedding will have to be disinfected before it can be used.
disorientated n. confused, bewildered, lost, adrift, (all) at sea, mixed up, uncertain, unsure, insecure, disoriented, Colloq out of it, in a fog, Brit off (the) beam, US off the beam: I left by another door and was completely disorientated for a moment.
disproportion n. inequality, unevenness, disparity, imbalance, asymmetry, irregularity, lopsidedness, dissimilarity, inconsistency, incongruity: Now that we're older, there isn't such a disproportion in our ages.
disservice n. harm, damage, injury, wrong, unkindness, bad turn, disfavour, injustice: It was a disservice to tell my boss about my expense account.
distinct adj. 1 clear, perceptible, plain, understandable, vivid, definite, well-defined, precise, exact, unmistakable or unmistakeable, noticeable, recognizable, obvious, patent, marked, manifest, evident, apparent, explicit, unambiguous, clear-cut, palpable, unequivocal, lucid, sharp, pellucid, limpid, transparent: There is a distinct outline of a figure on the Turin shroud. 2 separate, detached, discrete, different, dissimilar, distinguishable, distinguished; individual, sui generis, unique, special, singular; peculiar, unusual, uncommon, contrasting: The government of Puerto Rico is distinct from that of the US. He has been charged with three distinct offences.
disturbance n. 1 disruption, disorder, disorganization, disarrangement, disarray; upheaval, interruption, upset, intrusion, interference: She won't tolerate any disturbance to her schedule. 2 commotion, disorder, upset, outburst, tumult, turmoil, turbulence, violence, hubbub, hullabaloo, hurly-burly, uproar, brouhaha, rumpus, brawl, mle or melee, breach of the peace, Donnybrook, fray, affray, fracas, trouble, Colloq ruckus, Brit spot of bother, Slang Brit spot of bovver: There was a disturbance at the pub yesterday.
divine adj. 1 godlike, godly, holy, deiform, deific, angelic, seraphic, saintly; heavenly, celestial; sacred, sanctified, hallowed, consecrated, religious, spiritual: They believe in the divine right of kings. He receives divine inspiration at divine services. 2 superhuman, supernatural, gifted, pre-eminent, superior, excellent, supreme, exalted, transcendent, extraordinary: Even the divine Homer nods. 3 great, marvellous, splendid, superlative, glorious, superb, admirable, wonderful, awesome, perfect, excellent, beautiful, Colloq super, great, terrific, smashing, fantastic, splendiferous, Colloq Brit ace, magic: They say that the new musical is simply divine. --v. 4 intuit, imagine, conjecture, guess, assume, presume, infer, suppose, hypothesize, surmise, suspect, understand, perceive, speculate, theorize, predict, foretell, have foreknowledge of; determine, discover: He had divined that she might be there. --n. 5 holy man, priest, clergyman, cleric, ecclesiastic, minister, pastor, reverend, churchman, prelate: At his club, he enjoys the company of bishops, archbishops, and other divines.
domestic adj. 1 home, private, family, familial; residential, household: Her domestic life is a shambles. This toaster is for domestic use. 2 tame, domesticated, house-trained, house-broken: Tenants are forbidden to keep domestic animals. 3 home, native, indigenous, internal, autochthonous: The domestic market accounts for most of the company's income. --n. 4 servant, (hired) help, housekeeper, major-domo, steward: Her domestics left and she now does the cleaning herself.
dote v. Often, dote on or upon. be fond of, be infatuated with, love, idolize, hold dear, adore, make much of; coddle, pamper, spoil, indulge: I think she dotes on her husband at the expense of the children. What we need is a doting grandmother to babysit when we want to go out.
downwards adv. down, downward, below, lower: We moved downwards, towards the centre of the earth.
drawn adj. haggard, worn out, tired, fatigued, strained, pinched, tense, exhausted: Sidonia looks a bit drawn after her ordeal. dread v. 1 fear, be afraid of, apprehend, anticipate, flinch, shrink or recoil from, cringe or quail or blench or wince at, view with horror or alarm: She dreads any kind of surgery. --n. 2 fear, fright, fearfulness, trepidation, apprehension, apprehensiveness, uneasiness, anticipation, alarm, nervousness, qualm, queasiness, misgiving, dismay, worry, anxiety, consternation, concern, distress, perturbation, disquiet, aversion, horror, terror, panic, Colloq cold feet, butterflies (in the stomach), the jitters; Slang the heebie-jeebies, the willies, the collywobbles: I regarded the history exam with dread. --adj. 3 feared, dreaded, dreadful, terrifying, terrible: Before us, breathing fire, was the dread dragon of the Druids.
drip v. 1 dribble, trickle, drop; drizzle, sprinkle: The tap began to drip and kept me awake all night. --n. 2 dribble, trickle, drop, dripping: Yes, it was the drip from the tap that kept me awake. 3 milksop, bore, wet blanket, killjoy, damper, Colloq Brit wet, weed, Colloq wimp, Slang pill, drag, US and Canadian milquetoast: Must you invite that drip George?
due adj. 1 payable, owed, owing, unpaid, outstanding, in arrears: The rent is due tomorrow. 2 fitting, right, rightful, correct, proper, appropriate, apropos, apposite, suitable, apt, meet; deserved, (well-)earned, merited, just, justified: Was she treated with due respect? 3 necessary, needed, adequate, sufficient, enough, satisfactory; ample, plenty of: I do not think my case was given due consideration. 4 expected, scheduled, anticipated: He was due on the two o'clock plane. --adv. 5 directly, exactly, precisely, straight: Go due east to the river, then turn north.
duplicate adj. 1 identical; twin, matching: They sent me duplicate tickets by mistake. --n. 2 (exact or carbon) copy, photocopy, machine copy, double, clone, (perfect) match, facsimile, twin, reproduction, replica, replication, look-alike, Trade Mark Xerox (copy), Slang (dead) ringer: This painting looks like a duplicate of the one you bought. --v. 3 copy, photocopy, clone, match, replicate, imitate, reproduce, double, Trade Mark Xerox; repeat, equal: Would you please duplicate this letter for me? Can he duplicate his performance in the Commonwealth Games?
eagerness n. 1 avidity, zeal, earnestness, keenness, enthusiasm, fervour, hunger, vehemence, animation, vitality, appetite, zest, relish, spirit, spiritedness, gusto, verve, dash, lan, vim, vigour, energy, Colloq get-up-and-go, zip, go: Such eagerness for learning is rare. In his eagerness to please everyone he satisfies no one. 2 desire, longing, wishing, yearning: He observed the eagerness, the open hunger, with which she now waited for Mr Browning.
ebb v. 1 recede, flow back, subside, go out, go down; fall back or away, retreat, retrocede, retire: The tide ebbed, leaving the boat stranded. 2 decline, flag, decay, wane, diminish, decrease, drop, slacken, fade (away), drain (away), dwindle, peter out, waste (away), deteriorate: His enthusiasm for exercise is beginning to ebb. --n. 3 low tide, low water, ebb tide, low point: The rocks appear when the sea is at its ebb. 4 decline, decay, decrease, diminution, wane, drop, slackening (off), dwindling, lessening, deterioration, degeneration: She was no longer willing to contend with the ebb and flow of his temper.
editorial n. Brit leader, leading article; op-ed article, think-piece, opinion piece, position statement; essay, article, column: Did you see the editorial about the Middle East situation in today's paper?
effortless adj. easy (as pie or as A, B, C, or as 1, 2, 3), simple, painless, smooth, trouble-free, uncomplicated: She admired the apparently effortless grace of the dancer.
electric adj. charged, tense, energized, stimulating, exciting, thrilling, galvanizing, electrifying, moving, stirring: As the jury filed in, the atmosphere in the courtroom was electric.
eloquent adj. 1 expressive, articulate, silver-tongued, fluent, well-spoken, effective, persuasive, convincing, cogent, trenchant, incisive, graphic, vivid, striking, facile, smooth, glib, oratorical, rhetorical: He was an eloquent speaker. He rose and gave an eloquent speech. 2 suggestive, meaningful, pregnant: His eyebrow was raised in eloquent scepticism.
embezzle v. misappropriate, peculate, misapply, misuse, steal, make off or away with, filch, pilfer, purloin, Law defalcate; Colloq have one's hand in the till: The treasurer had embezzled half a million from the company.
emotion n. feeling, passion, sentiment, sensation: They say there is a fine line between the emotions of love and hate.
enchanting adj. beguiling, bewitching, entrancing, spellbinding, charming, fascinating, captivating, intriguing, enthralling, alluring, delightful, hypnotic, attractive, appealing, winsome, ravishing, seductive: Caesar found Cleopatra utterly enchanting.
endeavour v. 1 try, attempt, strive, make an effort, do one's best, struggle, exert oneself, undertake; aim, aspire; Colloq take a stab at, have a go or crack or whack or shot at: For years he's endeavoured to see her. --n. 2 effort, pains, attempt, try, striving, struggle, venture, enterprise, Colloq stab, crack, whack, shot: Her endeavours to be published have come to naught.
engagement n. 1 appointment, meeting, date, rendezvous, arrangement, commitment: I'm sorry, I have a previous engagement. 2 betrothal: Their engagement was announced in all the papers. 3 agreement, bargain, obligation, promise, pledge, covenant, contract: The company undertook an engagement to provide the steel. 4 job, position, post, commission, booking; employment, work; Colloq spot, Slang (of a musician) gig: He has an engagement with the newspaper. 5 fight, battle, conflict, encounter, combat: The naval engagement lasted three days and nights.
enormous adj. huge, immense, gigantic, elephantine, gargantuan, mammoth, titanic, colossal, tremendous, vast, massive, stupendous, Brobdingnagian, gross, monstrous, prodigious: An enormous dragon blocked their way out of the cave.
entertain v. 1 amuse, divert; delight, please; occupy: While we waited the boy entertained us with his juggling. 2 receive, accommodate, treat, be host (to), cater (for or to); have or see people or guests or visitors or company; Colloq host: We entertain on Tuesdays only. 3 contemplate, consider, have, hold, harbour, foster, tolerate, allow, maintain, sustain, support: They felt that they could not entertain the idea of their daughter marrying the gardener's son.
entrenched adj. rooted, deep-rooted, embedded, fixed, (firmly) planted, established, set, deep-seated, unshakeable, ineradicable, ingrained: We were unable to combat their entrenched opposition to the proposals.
epicurean adj. 1 sensual, sybaritic, luxurious, voluptuous, carnal, self-indulgent, pleasure-seeking, pleasure-oriented, hedonistic, gluttonous, intemperate, overindulgent, crapulent or crapulous, swinish, porcine, piggish, immoderate, orgiastic, libidinous, wild, unrestrained, unconfined, dissolute, dissipated, Bacchanalian, Saturnalian: The king's epicurean lifestyle contrasted with that of his starving subjects. 2 Lucullan, gourmet: That was truly an epicurean repast. --n. 3 epicure: It was a meal that would have won the approval of the greatest epicureans.
equivocate v. evade, mislead, hedge, deceive, quibble, dodge, weasel out (of), double-talk, fence, sidestep, skirt, avoid, tergiversate, prevaricate, Colloq waffle, beat about the bush, pussyfoot: I wish she'd confirm or deny it and stop equivocating.
essay n. 1 article, composition, paper, theme, piece; thesis, dissertation, disquisition, tract: Her essay is on the life cycle of the flea. 2 attempt, effort, try, endeavour, venture; Colloq shot, go: This is his first essay into the financial world. --v. 3 try, attempt, endeavour, strive, make an effort, undertake, venture, tackle, test, go about, Colloq take a crack or whack or stab at, Slang have a go at, give (it or something) a shot, have a go or bash (at): Let him essay to do better.
eulogize v. praise, extol, laud, applaud, compliment, sound or sing the praises of, acclaim; appreciate, honour; flatter: Kirk was eulogized for his contribution to space travel.
eventuality n. circumstance, contingency, event, occurrence, happening, case; likelihood, chance, possibility, probability: We must prepare for the eventuality of war.
evolution n. development, advance, growth, progress, progression, phylogeny, evolvement, developing, growing, evolving, formation, maturation, production: This book traces the evolution of the aeroplane. His treatise is on the evolution of insects.
exceedingly adv. very, extremely, especially, exceptionally, considerably, incomparably, immeasurably, extraordinarily, remarkably; excessively, greatly, hugely, enormously: She plays the violin exceedingly well. Even for a dog, that is an exceedingly ugly dog.
exciting adj. 1 stimulating, intoxicating, heady, thrilling, stirring, moving, inspiring, rousing, exhilarating, electrifying, galvanizing, energizing, invigorating; overwhelming, overpowering, astounding, astonishing, amazing, mind-boggling, Colloq far-out, rip-roaring, mind-blowing: Orbiting the world in the space shuttle was the most exciting experience of my life. 2 seductive, sensuous, voluptuous, ravishing, captivating, charming, tempting, enticing, alluring, provocative, titillating, Colloq sexy: Fenella is truly an exciting young woman.
exertion n. action, effort, striving, strain, work, struggle, toil, drive, push, diligence, industry, assiduity, assiduousness, sedulousness, sedulity, Colloq US stick-to-it-iveness: By considerable exertion, we finished on time. He was tired after all his exertions.
exotic adj. 1 foreign, alien, non-native, imported: She raises exotic plants. 2 strange, unfamiliar, unusual, bizarre, odd, peculiar, unique, singular, extraordinary, remarkable, out of the ordinary, different, outlandish, weird, crazy: His exotic clothes make him stand out in a crowd. 3 striptease, belly, go-go, topless, bottomless, nude: Her daughter is an exotic dancer at the new disco.
expense n. 1 Often, expenses. payment, costs, outlay, outgoings, disbursement, expenditure, spending, out-of-pocket (expenses); cost, price, charge, fee, rate: Keep your expenses to a minimum. Expenses for travel and entertainment will be reimbursed by the company. 2 detriment, sacrifice, cost, loss, impairment, ruin, destruction: They continue to smoke at the expense of their health.
exploit n. 1 achievement, deed, feat, attainment, accomplishment: The speaker regaled them with tales of his exploits as an explorer. --v. 2 use, take advantage of, manipulate, make capital out of, profit from, utilize, turn to account, manoeuvre, work: Far from being your friends, they are exploiting you for their own purposes. They need capital to exploit the country's natural resources.
extension n. 1 stretching, expansion, increase, enlargement, augmentation, development, amplification, broadening, widening, lengthening, spread, spreading: The extension of the plan is scheduled for next year. 2 range, extensiveness, scope, extent, magnitude, gauge, compass, sweep, reach, size, volume, dimension(s), proportions, capacity, span; breadth, width, height, length, spread, stretch: The extension of the mind seems almost limitless. 3 addendum, addition, annexe, wing, adjunct, ell, appendage; appendix, supplement: We have built an extension to the house.
extravagance n. 1 wastefulness, waste, lavishness, profligacy, prodigality, squandering, dissipation, improvidence, exorbitance, recklessness, overspending, excess: Our present debts are the result of extravagance. 2 immoderation, immoderateness, excessiveness, outrageousness, unrestraint, superfluity, superfluousness, over-sufficiency, preposterousness, unreasonableness, irrationality, absurdity; capriciousness, whim, fantasy, flightiness: His tawdry life belied the extravagance of his dreams.
fabrication n. 1 construction, assembly, assemblage, making, fashioning, production, manufacture, putting together, building, erection, formation, formulation, structuring, constructing, organization, forming, framing, architecture: The fabrication of thousands of parts took only a month. 2 invention, creation, origination, make-up, manufacture, hatching, concoction, contrivance, design: Only Vanessa could have been responsible for the fabrication of such a diabolical plot. 3 falsehood, lie, fib, prevarication, story, tale, untruth, fiction, yarn, fable; falsification, forgery, fake, sham, Colloq cock-and-bull story, Brit fairy story, fairy tale: His war record is a complete fabrication.
fade v. 1 (grow) dim or pale, grow faint, cloud (over), dull; bleach, whiten, etiolate, wash out, blanch or blench, discolour: The scene faded in the distance. Look how the sun has faded the curtains! 2 droop, wither, decline, die out or away, perish, ebb, flag, wane, wilt, waste away, sag, diminish, dwindle, languish, deteriorate, decay, shrivel, peter out or away: As he aged, his lust for life faded.
fallacy n. misconception, miscalculation, misjudgement, mistake, error, non sequitur, solecism, delusion; paralogism; sophism: It is a fallacy to think that you could ever learn to play the violin as well as Susannah.
fanatical adj. fanatic, extreme, distracted, maniacal, mad, rabid, zealous, frenzied, feverish, burning, frantic, frenetic, obsessive, fervent, compulsive, monomaniacal, fervid, perfervid, passionate, enthusiastic, agog, immoderate, excessive: The entire family are fanatical in their fundamentalism.
farmer n. husbandman, agriculturist, agronomist, yeoman, Brit smallholder, US dialect granger: The farmers here were hard hit by the drought.
fated adj. 1 destined, predestined, predetermined, decreed, doomed, fateful, ordained, foreordained, preordained, decided: The fated day of my trial arrived. 2 sure, certain, doomed, damned, cursed: Was I fated to spend the rest of my life in this fetid dungeon? 3 fatal, fateful, unavoidable, inescapable, inevitable, ineluctable: Their fated punishment was to bail out the sea using sieves.
favoured adj. 1 preferred, chosen, choice, selected, popular, favourite, pet: The favoured explanation is that he is the boss's son. 2 advantaged, privileged, blessed, prosperous, wealthy, rich, affluent, well off: She is one of the favoured few who can afford to travel.
feeble-minded adj. stupid, dull(-witted), witless, moronic, idiotic, imbecilic, simple, slow (on the uptake), slow-witted, weak-minded, dim-witted, addle-pated, halfwitted, deficient, subnormal, mentally defective, retarded, attocerebral, Brit ESN (='educationally subnormal'), Colloq dumb, thick, soft in the head, boneheaded, empty-headed, vacant, Brit gormless, US exceptional: Why do you spend so much time with that feeble-minded twit?
fertilize v. 1 impregnate, inseminate, pollinate, fecundate, fructify: The flower should be fertilized by pollen from a different stock. 2 manure, mulch, feed, nourish, enrich, dress, compost: The earth can be fertilized at any time.
fibre n. 1 filament, thread, strand, fibril, tendril: This fabric is woven from cotton fibre. 2 texture, structure, material, fabric: The fibre of this rock is granular. 3 essence, character, nature, mould, composition, constitution, substance, quality, stripe, cast, make-up: Love for him is wrapped up in the very fibre of her being.
file n. 1 document, documentation, dossier, case, data, folder, portfolio, information: Interpol has files on Cowdery's activities going back ten years. 2 line, queue, column, row, rank: The file of armoured vehicles stretched for miles. --v. 3 classify, organize, systematize, categorize, alphabetize, chronologize, order, arrange, pigeon-hole, interfile, put or place in order, register, record, enter: Must all this correspondence be filed today? 4 submit, send in, complete, fill in or US and Canadian also fill out, enter: I have already filed my application for a transfer. 5 walk, march, troop, parade: Please file into the classroom and take your seats.
finding n. 1 discovery, find: The findings from Pompeii are in the Museum of Portici. 2 judgement, decree, verdict, decision, determination, pronouncement, declaration, conclusion: The findings of the Law Lords are final.
fishy adj. 1 piscine, fishlike, piscatory, piscatorial: On the fishmonger's slab lay an array of fishy offerings, only a few of which I could recognize. 2 dubious, doubtful, questionable, unlikely, far-fetched, suspicious, not kosher, peculiar, odd, queer, strange, suspect, improbable, implausible, Colloq shady, funny: There is something fishy about this deal.
flagrant adj. blatant, brazen, bold, barefaced, audacious, arrant, glaring, outrageous, shocking, shameless, scandalous, atrocious, infamous, notorious, defiant, egregious, obvious, conspicuous, open, complete, out-and-out, utter, flagitious, monstrous, heinous, cruel, villainous, treacherous, nefarious, awful, gross, rank, inconsiderate, scornful, contemptuous; reprehensible; contemptible: Speeding shows a flagrant disregard for the safety of others.
flatter v. 1 butter up, play up to, compliment, praise, fawn (on or upon), toady to, truckle to, court, curry favour with, Colloq flannel, soft-soap, oil; Slang shine or suck up to, boot-lick, Taboo kiss (someone's) arse, brown-nose: Flattering the boss won't get you a salary increase. 2 enhance, complement, suit, show to advantage: That colour flatters her complexion. 3 cajole, wheedle, coax, inveigle, beguile, sweet-talk: He was flattered into signing that contract.
flex n. 1 wire, lead, cord, cable, extension: Replace this flex before you have a short circuit. --v. 2 bend, give, stretch, curve: The plastic tube can be flexed many times without breaking. 3 exercise, tense, tighten, contract: He flexed his muscles before lifting the weight.
float v. 1 hover, poise, bob, waft, be suspended, hang; sail, drift, glide, swim: In the clear Caribbean waters, the boat seemed to float in mid-air. 2 launch, establish, set up, organize, found, initiate, get going or moving: The financiers are trying to float a new company. 3 negotiate, arrange, transact, bring or carry off, get, effect, consummate, Colloq pull off, swing: Were you able to float a loan on your house? --n. 4 raft, Brit platform: I can swim out to the float. 5 buoy; pontoon: The bridge is supported by floats. 6 (parade) exhibit or display: Our parade float won first prize.
fluency n. articulateness, eloquence, control, command, ease, grace, effortlessness, facility, felicity, smoothness, polish, slickness, glibness, volubility: His extemporaneous speeches are marked by an enviable fluency.
foam n. 1 bubbles, froth, spume, lather, suds; effervescence, sparkle, carbonation, fizz: The foam leaves spots when it dries. --v. 2 bubble, froth, spume, lather, suds, soap up: Watch the solution foam when I drop this tablet into it.
fond adj. 1 tender, loving, affectionate, warm, adoring, caring: She clasped him in a fond embrace. 2 foolish, bootless, empty, vain, nave: She had fond hopes of his being elected. 3 fond of. partial to, (having a) liking (for), soft on or about, affectionate towards, attached to, having a fancy or taste for, fancying, predisposed or inclined to or towards; addicted to, Colloq hooked on: She is inordinately fond of chocolate.
forcible adj. 1 See forceful, 2. 2 drastic, forceful, violent, aggressive, coercive, severe, stringent: The plan involves the forcible repatriation of refugees.
foreword n. preface, prologue, prelude, prolegomenon, preamble, Literary proem; introduction: He set forth the purpose of the book in the foreword.
former adj. 1 previous, earlier, prior, ex-, one-time, preceding, erstwhile, late, latest, last, recent, ci-devant, quondam, Archaic whilom: I ran into a former girl-friend at the art show. 2 old, past, bygone; ancient, (pre)historic, departed, antediluvian: In former times, one could demand - and get decent service.
foul adj. 1 offensive, loathsome, disgusting, obnoxious, revolting, repulsive, repellent, repugnant, sickening, nauseous, nauseating, nasty, beastly, Archaic fulsome: The bartender makes a foul concoction he swears will cure a hangover. 2 filthy, unclean, nasty, polluted, putrid, putrescent, putrefactive or putrefacient, defiled, soiled, spoiled, rotten, decayed, decomposed, rancid, soured, turned, tainted, mouldy, impure, adulterated, contaminated, stale, bad, Brit off: The hamburger place was closed when public health inspectors found foul food in the freezer. 3 smelly, stinking, noisome, fetid or foetid, rank, evil-smelling, foul-smelling, malodorous, musty, mephitic, graveolent: A foul odour emanated from the cabinet. 4 wicked, vile, bad, base, abominable, low, sordid, iniquitous, evil, flagitious, atrocious, monstrous, nefarious, sinful, immoral, amoral, vicious, villainous, scandalous, infamous, dishonourable, shameful, disgraceful, ignominious; detestable: They were finally brought to justice for their foul deeds. 5 dirty, obscene, filthy, profane, scatological, gross, smutty, foul-mouthed, blue, licentious, salacious, lewd, indecent, improper, coarse, uncouth, vulgar, rude, scurrilous, rough, indelicate, immodest, risqu, off colour, suggestive, bawdy, ribald, Rabelaisian, Fescennine, US raw, Slang raunchy: My mother forbids my reading books containing foul language. 6 abusive, offensive, affronting, insulting, disparaging, maligning, thersitical, calumnious or calumniatory, aspersive, slanderous, defamatory, libellous, denigrating, derogatory, deprecatory or deprecative, depreciatory or depreciative, denunciatory or denunciative, derisory, derisive, scornful, belittling, fulminous, objurgatory or objurgative, vituperative, invective: Keep your foul tongue to yourself. 7 dishonest, unfair, unjust, unsportsmanlike, dishonourable, fraudulent, underhand(ed), double-dealing, two-faced, corrupt, venal, dirty, treacherous, perfidious, traitorous, unscrupulous, Colloq crooked, shady, Slang chiefly Brit bent: Thrupp will get his way by fair means or foul. 8 nasty, dangerous, rough, disagreeable, unfavourable, sloppy, stormy, adverse; windy, blustery; snowy, sleety, wet, rainy: We ran into a spot of foul weather at Dover. 9 obstructed, blocked, choked, stopped (up), plugged (up), clogged (up): The drain is foul with all that rubbish. 10 tangled, entangled, caught, ensnared, enmeshed, snarled: A foul anchor is a common nautical symbol. 11 illegal, prohibited, forbidden, interdicted, not fair; dirty: In boxing a hit below the belt is a foul blow. --v. 12 dirty, pollute, sully, befoul, defile, soil, contaminate, adulterate, taint: Effluent from the factory was fouling the river. 13 tangle, entangle, catch, snare, ensnare, enmesh, snag, snarl, jam, twist: We can't hoist the mainsail because the halyard is fouled. 14 disgrace, dishonour, sully, taint, besmirch, defile, soil, stain, smear, tarnish, blacken, denigrate, debase, degrade, abase, demean, disparage, defame, derogate, asperse, devaluate, depreciate, vitiate, belittle, discredit, bring or call into disrepute: That act of treachery will foul the family name for generations. 15 obstruct, block, choke, stop or plug or clog (up): Dead leaves fouled the downpipe. 16 foul up. a See def. 13 mismanage, mishandle, botch, bungle, make a mess (of), mess up, spoil, ruin, Colloq muff, Brit throw a spanner in(to) (the works), US throw a monkey wrench into (the machinery); Slang muck up, goof (up), blow, screw up, louse up, Chiefly Brit bugger (up), US and Canadian snafu: Give him a chance and he's sure to foul up. She fouled up my hi-fi. --n. 17 violation, infringement, infraction, illegality: The Rangers' forward has already been charged with two fouls. --adv. 18 afoul, in conflict, in trouble, in violation: Curshaw has fallen foul of the law again.
frail adj. 1 See fragile. 2 ailing, unwell, ill, sick, sickly, poorly, thin, skinny, slight, puny, scrawny, wasting or fading away, languishing, infirm, feeble; crippled, consumptive, phthisic: She is too frail to see visitors.
freely adv. 1 candidly, frankly, openly, unreservedly, without reserve, unrestrainedly, without restraint, unconstrainedly, without constraint, unceremoniously, plainly: Please speak freely. 2 willingly, spontaneously, readily, voluntarily, on (one's) own, independently, of (one's) own accord, of (one's) own volition or free will: I didn't send for her - she came to me freely. 3 unrestrainedly, unrestrictedly, without restriction, without let or hindrance, without interference: He was allowed to move freely about the island. 4 liberally, lavishly, unreservedly, generously, unstintingly, open-handedly, ungrudgingly, munificently, amply, plentifully, abundantly: He has no money to donate but he gives freely of his time. 5 readily, easily, smoothly, cleanly, unobstructedly: With the obstacle removed, the water ran freely through the pipes.
frightening adj. terrifying, alarming, startling, shocking, petrifying, horrifying, dismaying, appalling, unnerving, dire, distressing, daunting, intimidating, formidable, frightful, fearful, hair-raising, harrowing, dreadful, Colloq scary, spooky: Skydiving can be a frightening experience. The sight of their mangled bodies was frightening.
frugal adj. 1 thrifty, sparing, economic(al), careful, prudent, provident, saving, conservative, conservational, moderate: Mother had to become quite frugal when father fell ill. 2 parsimonious, penurious, penny-pinching, cheese-paring, mean, miserly, stingy, niggardly, tight(-fisted), close(-fisted), hand to mouth: He led a frugal existence on his earnings as an artist. 3 meagre, paltry, poor, skimpy, scant(y), small, negligible, piddling: His frugal meal consisted entirely of bread and water.
functional adj. 1 utilitarian, useful, serviceable, practical, practicable, functioning, working; essential, important, effective: This gear is a functional part, not mere decoration. 2 working, operating, operational, running, going: Is this telephone functional?
fussy adj. 1 particular, finicky, finical, dainty, discriminating, difficult, fastidious, exacting, demanding, Colloq picky, choosy, nit-picking, pernickety or US also persnickety: He's so fussy that he'll wear only custom-made shoes. 2 fancy, elaborate, over-decorated, gingerbread, rococo, ornate, detailed, Byzantine: The style is a bit too fussy for my taste.
gallant adj. 1 brave, courageous, bold, valiant, daring, dauntless, intrepid, plucky, fearless, valorous, unafraid, undaunted, manly, manful, plucky, mettlesome, stout-hearted, lion-hearted, heroic, dashing, (high-)spirited: Three gallant soldiers held off the enemy attack. 2 chivalrous, courtly, courteous, polite, attentive, gentlemanly, noble, gracious, considerate, thoughtful, well-bred, mannerly: What man is so gallant today as to give up his seat on a bus to a lady? 3 dignified, elegant, imposing, grand, noble, glorious, fine, splendid, majestic, stately, magnificent: Overwhelmed by four enemy men o' war, the gallant ship sank beneath the waves. --n. 4 champion, hero, knight, cavalier, paladin: Which gallant wears her scarf on his sleeve in today's jousts? 5 lover, Romeo, sweetheart, beloved, paramour, boyfriend, beau, escort, suitor, admirer, Literary swain: In those days, gallants continually sent their ladies gifts and flowers.
gash n. 1 cut, slash, wound, score, cleft, incision, laceration, slit, groove, split: The chisel slipped, cutting a deep gash in the table. --v. 2 cut, slash, wound, score, cleave, incise, lacerate, slit, groove, split: I've gashed my hand on a rusty nail.
generate v. 1 produce, create, originate, make, manufacture: At these stations we can generate 1000 megawatts of electricity. 2 spawn, father, sire, bring into being, procreate, breed, beget, engender, propagate: This one fish would generate millions of offspring if all survived. 3 produce, create, give rise to, inspire, whip up, cause, initiate: Her good fortune generated in him a feeling of envy. 4 produce, create, invent, coin, make up, fabricate, fashion, devise, develop, form, forge, mould, contrive, construct, put together: We must generate a new theory to account for these phenomena.
get-up n. 1 costume, outfit; rig: He came in a diver's get-up. 2 format, layout, arrangement, structure, look, style: Who is responsible for the magazine's new get-up?
gist n. essence, core, heart, substance, point, theme, quintessence, pith, meat, marrow, focus, nub, significance, (main or basic) idea; direction, drift: It will save time if I tell you the gist of the argument.
glee n. delight, exuberance, cheerfulness, high or good spirits, cheer, exhilaration, elation, exultation, joy, happiness, rapture, gladness, felicity, pleasure, joyfulness, merriment, jubilation, joyousness, joviality, jollity, gaiety, mirthfulness; enjoyment, satisfaction, Schadenfreude: We watched with great glee as the villain was thwarted.
gloss n. 1 explanation, interpretation, exegesis, explication, definition, elucidation, comment, commentary, annotation, critique, criticism, analysis, footnote; translation: Some editions of Shakespeare give glosses of difficult words and phrases at the foot of each page. --v. 2 comment on or upon, explain, interpret, explicate, define, elucidate, annotate, criticize, analyse, review, US critique; translate: Johnson was not the first to gloss the word 'pastern'. 3 See gloss, 4, above.
gob n. chunk, piece, blob, lump, gobbet, morsel, fragment, bite: She took a gob of peanut butter and spread it on the bread.
good-natured adj. good-humoured, friendly, agreeable, genial, gracious, good-hearted, pleasant, mellow, easygoing, considerate, nice, kind, kindly, kind-hearted, tender-hearted, charitable, tolerant, generous, courteous, cordial, warm, warm-hearted, amiable, amicable, cooperative: He seems a good-natured fellow, but not too bright.
gracious adj. kind, courteous, polite, well-mannered, kindly, benevolent, beneficent, indulgent, kind-hearted, warm-hearted, cordial, warm, friendly, sociable, good-natured, amiable, affable, benign, accommodating, obliging, agreeable, considerate: It was gracious of you to grant me an audience.
grasp v. 1 grip, grab, seize, clasp, clutch, snatch, hold, take or lay or catch hold of, Colloq nab: I grasped the rope and was pulled to safety. 2 understand, comprehend, appreciate, catch (on), get, get the drift or point of, follow, see, realize, apprehend, learn, Colloq make head(s) or tail(s) of, Slang dig: I am trying to grasp the full import of what you are saying. --n. 3 hold, grip, clutches, clasp, embrace, lock: He loosened his grasp on my throat and I could breathe again. 4 possession, control, power, mastery, sovereignty, suzerainty, hold: By then, even the outer islands had fallen within his grasp. 5 understanding, comprehension, apprehension, awareness, perception, sense: He has a poor grasp of the basics of the subject.
greed n. 1 greediness, avarice, avariciousness, covetousness, acquisitiveness, cupidity, avidity, craving, yearning: Greed accounts for most of man's dishonesty. 2 meanness, stinginess, miserliness, selfishness, niggardliness, penuriousness, parsimony, close-fistedness, penny-pinching, tight-fistedness: From a life of greed he had accumulated enormous wealth. 3 gluttony, voraciousness, edacity, esurience, voracity, overeating, gormandizing, ravenousness, insatiableness: Obesity owes more to greed than to glandular disorder.
grisly adj. gruesome, gory, abhorrent, abominable, awful, appalling, hideous, shocking, nasty, dreadful, repulsive, repellent, repugnant, disgusting, sickening, nauseating, horrific, horrid, horrendous, horrifying, terrible, terrifying, terrific: A grisly scene greeted the soldiers who liberated the concentration camp.
growth n. 1 development, evolution, evolvement, cultivation, nurturing, increase, expansion, broadening, extension, enlargement, spread, proliferation, flowering: The growth of education was a slow and painful process. 2 vegetation, crop: The area is covered with a dense growth of timber. 3 advance, advancement, success, improvement, expansion, rise, progress: The growth of the economy has slowed down in the last quarter. 4 wen, excrescence, wart, lump, tumour, swelling, intumescence: He developed an ugly growth on his nose.
gulf n. 1 bay, bight, cove, inlet, sound, loch or sea loch, firth or frith, fiord or fjord, Irish lough, Brit creek: We sailed into the gulf to shelter from the wind behind the cliffs. 2 chasm, deep, depth, abyss, abysm, void, space, opening, rift, breach, gap, separation, rift, split: After the divorce, the gulf between us widened even further.
habitat n. abode, home, haunt, domain, range, territory, bailiwick, realm, terrain, element, environment, surroundings, Colloq stamping-ground: The winter habitat of the monarch butterfly is in northern Mexico. Curtis doesn't function well outside his natural habitat.
half-hearted adj. indifferent, uncaring, unconcerned, lukewarm, uninterested, dispassionate, cool, unenthusiastic, half-baked, nonchalant, phlegmatic, lackadaisical, insouciant: The council has made only a half-hearted effort to solve the problem.
handily adv. 1 readily, easily, effortlessly, without strain, comfortably, with both hands tied (behind one's back): Donald handily won the first prize in the poetry competition. 2 skilfully, capably, deftly, cleverly, dexterously, adroitly, expertly, proficiently, masterfully: I could never do that intricate work as handily as she.
harass v. badger, harry, hector, trouble, torment, bother, exasperate, hound, plague, persecute, vex, annoy, irritate, pester, worry, beset, bait, nag, pick on or at, tease, torture, Brit chivvvy or chivy or chevy: The police harass me by turning up at all hours for 'help with their inquiries'.
harsh adj. 1 rough, coarse, bristly, scratchy, hairy, crude; hoarse, grating, raucous, rasping, husky, guttural; clashing, inharmonious or unharmonious, discordant, atonal, dissonant, cacophonous, strident, shrill, grinding, sour; bitter, sour, acrid: He found harsh the sights, sounds, tastes, and smells of the Casbah. 2 stern, austere, bleak, dour, unkind, unfeeling, comfortless, uncompassionate, unfriendly, grim, hard, Spartan, stringent, over-exacting, Draconian, tyrannical, stark, severe, cruel, abusive, punishing, punitive, brutal, brutish, inhuman, merciless, ruthless, pitiless: Simon is a very harsh taskmaster. 3 unpleasant, disagreeable, impolite, discourteous, uncivil, rude, nasty, curt, abrupt, brusque, bluff, gruff, curmudgeonly, choleric, splenetic, surly, sullen, irascible, short-tempered, petulant, peevish, waspish, grouchy, bilious, cross, acrimonious, sarcastic, acerbic: Why is Maria so harsh to Alan?
hazardous adj. unsafe, risky, fraught with danger, questionable, shaky, dangerous, precarious, uncertain, unpredictable, parlous, ticklish, tricky, Colloq chiefly Brit dicey, dicky or dickey, Slang hairy: It took three months to make the hazardous overland journey in those days.
hearty adj. 1 genial, warm, kind-hearted, affectionate, amiable, amicable, friendly, affable, cordial, open, convivial: I was greeted by a hearty welcome when I returned. 2 genuine, unfeigned, authentic, sincere, heartfelt, warm, wholehearted, honest, earnest, devout, stalwart, stout: Please give Desmond my hearty congratulations. 3 enthusiastic, vigorous, energetic, eager, zealous, exuberant, robust, active, animated, strong: They are hearty supporters of our cause. 4 abundant, ample, substantial, solid, sizeable, satisfying, square; nourishing, invigorating, strengthening: On Sundays, we had a hearty meal at midday when we could afford it. 5 healthy, hale, vigorous, robust, strong, sound: Well, Eric, now that you're over your malaria you appear to be quite hearty.
height n. 1 altitude, elevation, level; tallness: At what height is the second camp on Mount Everest? The height of the skyscrapers impressed me. 2 acme, crest, pinnacle, top, zenith, apogee, peak, apex, maximum, high point, summit, climax, culmination, extreme: Popularity of that style reached its height in the 1930s. His remark reflected the height of arrogance. 3 Often, heights. elevation, mound, hill, eminence, prominence, mountain, peak, crag, summit; tor, cliff, bluff, promontory, escarpment, scarp, headland, No. Brit fell: As we gazed down from the heights, the villages seemed tiny.
heretical adj. unorthodox, heterodox, impious, freethinking, heretic, apostate or apostatical, iconoclastic, schismatic, sceptic, agnostic, atheist(ic), idolatrous, heathen, pagan, infidel, godless: The purpose of the Inquisition was to discover and suppress heretical views.
highbrow n. 1 scholar, intellectual, savant, sage, mastermind, genius; aesthete, connoisseur, Colloq egghead, brain: Many who pretend to deride highbrows secretly envy them. --adj. 2 scholarly, intellectual, learned, erudite, deep, bookish, cultured, sophisticated, cultivated, aesthetic, Colloq brainy: Books on philosophy are too highbrow for the market we cater to.
hit v. 1 strike, cuff, smack, knock, whack, bash, bang, thump, thwack, punch, buffet, slap, swat, bludgeon, club, smite; spank, thrash, beat, pummel, batter, flog, scourge, birch, cane, lash, belabour, flagellate, whip, horsewhip, cudgel, Archaic fustigate; Colloq belt, wallop, clobber, clout, sock, clip, crown, bop, conk, paste, lambaste, zap: She hit him on the jaw and he went down. 2 strike, bat, swat, knock, drive, propel: He hit the ball over the heads of the fielders. 3 strike, collide or impact with, run or smash or crash into, bump or bang into: The car went off the road and hit a tree. 4 affect, touch, stir, move, wound, hurt, strike or hit home, make or leave an impression or a mark on, (make an) impact (on): The new taxes hit the wealthy more than the poor. 5 dawn on, enter one's mind, occur to, strike: It finally hit Graham that he had been insulted. 6 reach, attain, arrive at, gain, achieve: Those who have hit eighty know the meaning of old age. She hit the jackpot this week. 7 experience, encounter, meet (with): It was at that point that we hit a snag in the negotiations. 8 Also, hit up. importune, beseech, petition, beg, implore, entreat, ask for: As usual, Guthrie hit me for a loan as soon as we met. 9 hit on or upon. a come or happen or chance or light on or upon, discover, find, uncover, unearth, stumble or blunder on or upon, arrive at: After years of experimentation, the Curies hit upon pitchblende as a source of radium. b devise, think of or up, invent, dream up, come up with, work out, see, perceive, detect, discern, find: I have hit upon a way to counteract the force of gravity. --n. 10 impact, collision; blow, punch, knock, strike, swat, shot, smack, bump, bang, Colloq whack, thwack, conk, bop, sock: The weakness of the hit caused only a slight dent in my car door. The boxer reeled after a hard hit to the midriff. 11 success, triumph, coup, winner, sensation, Colloq smash (hit), sell-out: After opening in the West End the musical became a hit on Broadway. 12 kick, jolt, thrill, Slang charge, US rush, bang: Give me a hit off that reefer.
holocaust n. 1 conflagration, fire-storm, inferno, fire; destruction, devastation: When the volcano exploded, few escaped the holocaust. 2 genocide, mass murder, massacre, blood bath, pogrom, butchery, carnage, annihilation, extinction, extermination, eradication, elimination: Survivors of the Nazi holocaust hold periodic memorial services.
honour n. 1 integrity, honesty, fairness, justness, probity, uprightness, decency, goodness, righteousness, rectitude, justice, morality, principles, virtuousness, virtue: Doing the right thing is a matter of honour. 2 respect, esteem, reverence, veneration, approbation, deference, admiration, homage, regard, accolade, praise, kudos, fame, glory, celebrity, distinction, prestige, illustriousness: Great honour accompanies the award of a Nobel prize. 3 privilege, distinction, pleasure, joy, delight; credit, blessing: I have the honour to introduce tonight's speaker. It has been an honour to serve under you, Admiral. 4 virginity, chastity, virtue, purity, innocence: How did she manage to preserve her honour when fighting with the partisans? --v. 5 respect, esteem, revere, venerate, adulate, adore, worship, approve, prize, value, defer to, admire, pay homage to: Albert Schweitzer was much honoured in the latter part of his life. 6 praise, laud, glorify, celebrate, eulogize, salute, hail, acclaim, ennoble, dignify, exalt: We have come together to honour those who have died for their country. 7 keep, maintain, carry out, live up to, discharge, fulfil, observe, meet: She has done her best to honour her obligations. 8 pay, redeem, accept, clear, cash: The bank refused to honour his cheque because of 'insufficient funds'.
hospitable adj. 1 welcoming, gracious, courteous, genial, friendly, agreeable, amicable, cordial, warm, congenial, sociable, generous: It was most hospitable of you to invite me. 2 open-minded, receptive, amenable, approachable, tolerant: The director is always hospitable to suggestions for improving sales.
hound v. bully, browbeat, persecute, nag, harass, annoy, pester, harry, badger: Although he was found innocent, his neighbours hounded him so much that he had to leave town.
hull n. 1 framework, skeleton, frame, structure, body: The hull of the ship completed, we added the superstructure. 2 shell, pod, case, husk, skin, peel, rind, US shuck: Squirrels carefully nibble through the hull of the nut to get at the kernel inside. --v. 3 shell, peel, skin, husk, US shuck: We hulled all the nuts and they are now ready for the fruit cake.
hunt v. 1 chase, pursue, dog, hound, stalk, trail, track (down), trace; course: The jewel thieves were hunted across three continents. 2 Also, hunt for or up or out or through. seek (out), search (for), go in search of or for, look (high and low) for, quest after, go in quest of, scour, ransack, investigate, pry into, go over or through with a fine-tooth comb, examine, explore, Colloq US check out: Detectives hunted the carpet for clues. She is hunting a job in publishing. I have hunted for the ring but cannot find it. Can you hunt up someone to fill the vacancy? Hunt through your pockets again for the key. --n. 3 chase, pursuit, tracking (down), stalking, hunting; course: The ten-year hunt for the thieves continues. 4 search, quest: My hunt ended when I found the ring.
hygienic adj. clean, sanitary, sterile, disinfected, germ-free, aseptic, pure: It is essential that hygienic surroundings be maintained in hospitals.
identification n. 1 connection, recognition, distinguishing, indication, perception, detection, selection, naming, labelling, pinpointing, designation, characterization, denomination; authentication, verification, establishment, certification, substantiation, corroboration, Colloq fingering: Her identification of him as her attacker is not sufficient to convict him. 2 classification, classifying, cataloguing, categorization, categorizing, pigeon-holing: How much time is needed for the identification of the minerals in the moon rocks? 3 ID, ID card, identity card, badge, credentials: Only up-to-date identification will be accepted as proof of ownership. 4 connection, association, affiliation, empathy, sympathy, rapport, relationship: His continued identification with comic-book heroes is immature.
ill-advised adj. 1 inadvisable, ill-judged, injudicious, ill-considered, misguided, unwise, imprudent, inappropriate, unpropitious, inexpedient, impolitic, wrong-headed, thoughtless; indiscreet: It would be ill-advised to sell your house at this time. 2 hasty, rash, reckless, impetuous, rash, foolhardy, incautious, short-sighted, improvident: Driving without a seat belt is ill-advised.
illustrious adj. distinguished, famous, noted, renowned, famed, eminent, well-known, prominent, important, notable, respected, esteemed, venerable, honoured, acclaimed, celebrated, great: He belongs in the same category as other illustrious generals, like Kitchener.
immense adj. enormous, gigantic, extensive, vast, huge, massive, voluminous, tremendous, staggering, stupendous, mammoth, colossal, giant, titanic, Cyclopean, jumbo, elephantine, Brobdingnagian, Slang US humongous: Our exit from the cave was blocked by an immense boulder.
impale v. spear, stab, pierce, skewer, spit, stick, transfix, spike: They impaled the heads of their enemies on poles as a warning.
imperial adj. 1 kingly, kinglike, queenly, queenlike, princely, princelike, regal, royal, sovereign: The imperial court was rich and splendid. 2 majestic, royal, regal, lofty, exalted, supreme, august, noble, superior, imposing, splendid, magnificent, grand, excellent: Her imperial presence outshone all at the ball.
impolite adj. discourteous, ill-mannered, uncivil, rude, ungracious, ungentlemanly, unladylike, pert, disrespectful, saucy, boorish, churlish, crude, indecorous, indelicate, unrefined, ill-bred, vulgar, coarse: The waiter was so impolite that I refused him a tip.
impregnable adj. invulnerable, impenetrable, inviolable, unconquerable, invincible, unbeatable, indomitable, secure, safe, mighty, well-fortified: The walls of the castle, sixteen feet thick, were impregnable.
impudence n. impertinence, effrontery, insolence, disrespect, presumption, presumptuousness, audacity, shamelessness, pertness, sauciness, boldness, brazenness, incivility, rudeness, impoliteness, Colloq lip, gall, guff, sauce, mouth, Brit backchat, side, US back talk, Slang chutzpah: He had the impudence to suggest that I was too old for the job!
inane adj. silly, asinine, vapid, vacant, vacuous, absurd, fatuous, foolish, senseless, nonsensical, unreasonable, preposterous, ludicrous, ridiculous, laughable, risible, mad, lunatic, crazy, stupid, dumb, idiotic, moronic, imbecilic, Colloq nutty, nuts, daft, daffy, screwy, batty, dippy, wacky, cuckoo, loony, goofy, Brit bonkers, dotty: Students seem especially prone to inane behaviour.
incidental adj. 1 casual, chance, fortuitous, aleatory, random, haphazard, serendipitous, unpredictable, accidental, adventitious, unplanned, unlooked-for, Colloq fluky: Any good that came from the war was incidental. 2 subordinate, secondary, ancillary, minor, lesser, non-essential, unimportant, trivial, negligible, inconsequential, insignificant, petty, trifling, paltry: The incidental events were not covered by the press.
incombustible adj. non-flammable, non-inflammable, fireproof, non-combustible; flame-proof: She has to wear incombustible clothing at her job.
inconspicuous adj. unnoticeable, unnoticed, unobtrusive, unostentatious, insignificant, indefinite, indistinguishable, undistinguished; modest, unassuming, discreet: Wearing a grey coat and hat, he was quite inconspicuous in the crowd. He played an inconspicuous role in the entire affair.
incumbent adj. 1 obligatory, necessary, required, mandatory, compulsory, binding, demanding, commanding, prescribed: As their father, you ought to feel it incumbent on you to talk to the children's teachers. 2 office-holding: The incumbent chairman is not responsible for his predecessor's mistakes. --n. 3 office-holder, official, occupant: As the incumbent, you have a better chance of being re-elected.
index n. 1 guide, directory, list, listing, table of contents, catalogue, key, thesaurus: To find synonyms for a word in this book, look first in the index. 2 mark, sign, clue, token, hint, pointer, indicator, indication, guide: An index to his feelings can be seen in the way he treats people. 3 index finger, forefinger, first finger; pointer, marker, needle, Chiefly Brit typography hand, Chiefly US typography fist: Use an index to emphasize important paragraphs. 4 ratio, measure, formula, factor: The cephalic index is the ratio of the width of a skull to its length multiplied by 100.
indiscretion n. 1 imprudence, tactlessness, improvidence, injudiciousness, rashness, recklessness, audacity, boldness, temerity, impulsiveness, hastiness, haste, impetuousness, impetuosity, thoughtlessness, insensitivity, heedlessness, carelessness, navety, foolishness, foolhardiness, folly: He was guilty of indiscretion in talking to the press about the confidential report. 2 blunder, error, mistake, slip, lapse, misstep, gaffe, faux pas, peccadillo, Colloq boner, Brit bloomer: He spent much of his adult life paying for the indiscretions of his youth.
induct v. 1 install or instal, inaugurate, invest, instate, establish, swear in: Crocker was inducted as president of the lodge last night. 2 call up, enlist, conscript, enrol, register, US draft: He was inducted into the army at 18.
inestimable adj. 1 incalculable, immeasurable, measureless, untold, incomputable; priceless, invaluable, precious: You have been of inestimable help in completing the project on time. 2 countless, innumerable, vast, immense, prodigious, boundless, unfathomable, infinite, incalculable, immeasurable, measureless, untold, incomputable: An inestimable number of organisms have inhabited the earth.
infatuated adj. fascinated, beguiled, enchanted, bewitched, spellbound, charmed, ensorcelled, enraptured, possessed, hypnotized, mesmerized, captivated, besotted, taken with, obsessed, smitten, enamoured, fond: Francis is completely infatuated with the girl who moved in next door.
inflamed adj. irritated, sore, angry, chafing, chafed, red, swollen, heated, hot, fevered, feverish, infected, septic: The wound became inflamed and we had no medicine to reduce the infection.
infringe v. 1 violate, contravene, break, disobey, transgress, overstep: Publication of this article has infringed her right to a fair trial. 2 infringe on or upon. intrude on, impinge on, trespass on, encroach on, invade: Never let pleasure infringe on the domain of duty.
inhibit v. discourage, repress, frustrate, hold back, bridle, curb, control, govern, hinder, restrain, impede, obstruct, interfere with, check, prevent, bar, stop: Her sad look inhibited my expression of delight at seeing her again.
inmate n. prisoner, convict, captive, jailbird or Brit also gaolbird, Slang Brit lag; patient, case; inhabitant, occupant, resident: The inmates were fed on bread and water in those days. Inmates at the sanatorium are well treated.
insight n. perception, percipience, sensitivity, perspicacity, perceptiveness, perspicaciousness, discernment, acuteness, acuity, acumen, sharpness, understanding, judgement, comprehension, vision: Chambers has brought his considerable insight to bear on this complex problem.
instead adv. 1 as an alternative or a substitute: She wanted me to go but I stayed instead. 2 instead of. alternatively, preferably, in preference to, in place of, in lieu of, rather than, as a substitute for; as contrasted with, as opposed to: Instead of going to the cinema we went to the theatre.
insulate v. 1 detach, separate, isolate, segregate, shelter, preserve, set or keep apart, sequester, sequestrate, quarantine: The rock star's aides did their best to insulate her from her screaming fans. 2 lag, protect, shield, cushion, wrap, cover: Insulate the pipes to prevent heat loss. Insulate the wire with this tape. Nitroglycerine must be insulated from shock.
intensify v. concentrate, focus, sharpen, whet, strengthen, reinforce, heighten, escalate, deepen, quicken, emphasize, magnify, increase, augment, double, redouble, heat up, Colloq step up, Brit hot up: We must intensify our efforts to effect a settlement of the crisis. The war is intensifying.
interlude n. interval, entr'acte, intermission, pause, stop, stoppage, respite, interruption, break, hiatus, lacuna, gap, halt, wait, breathing-space, recess, rest, spell, lull, Colloq let-up: There is a ten-minute interlude between the acts.
intolerance n. bias, prejudice, bigotry, discrimination, partiality, illiberality, narrow-mindedness, dogmatism; racism, racialism, sexism, classism, ageism, xenophobia: The government has legislated against intolerance of minorities.
invalid adj. void, null (and void), nullified, annulled, repudiated, untrue, false, faulty, erroneous, wrong, spurious; incorrect, imperfect, impaired, unsound, untenable, ineffective: He was driving with an invalid licence. Your reasons for quitting school are invalid.
involved adj. 1 implicated, concerned, affected, interested, active: The public enquiry was attended by all involved members of the community. 2 tangled, complicated, complex, twisted, snarled, convoluted, confused, confusing, intricate, tortuous, elaborate, knotty, Byzantine, labyrinthine: The plot is too involved to be followed easily. The involved problems of adolescence cannot be treated in a one-day conference. 3 involved with. associated with, entangled with, embroiled with, enmeshed with, Colloq mixed up with: Dennis is still very much involved with that singer from the Green Dragon.
irritate v. annoy, vex, nettle, pester, provoke, bother, anger, enrage, chafe, pique, exasperate, ruffle, hector, harass, harry, nag, plague, worry, fret, fluster, trouble, pick at or on, Colloq needle, get under (someone's) skin, get in (someone's) hair, hassle, peeve, get on (someone's) nerves, drive (someone) up the wall, get (someone's) hackles up, get (someone's) back up, drive (someone) crazy or mad, rub (someone) (up) the wrong way, Brit get up (someone's) nose, US burn (someone) up: All these stupid questions are beginning to irritate me.
jangle v. 1 clatter, clash, rattle, clang, clank, crash, ring, jingle: The chains jangled as the prisoners marched to their cells. 2 jar, upset, irritate: The continuous screaming of the sirens jangled my nerves. --n. 3 jangling, clatter, clash, rattle, jarring, clang, clanging, clank, clanking, crash, clangour, noise, din, racket, clamour, dissonance, cacophony, reverberation, Literary stridor: I heard the jangle of the rag-and-bone man's cart in the next street.
jilt v. throw over, reject, dismiss, drop, discard, desert, break (up) with, forsake, abandon, Colloq ditch, dump, brush off or give (someone) the brush-off, Chiefly US and Canadian give (someone) his or her walking papers: Angela met Tony and promptly jilted Mike.
journalist n. reporter, newspaperman, newspaperwoman, correspondent, newsman, newswoman, member of the fourth estate, gentleman or lady of the press, stringer; columnist; hack; newscaster, anchorman, anchorwoman, commentator, broadcaster, Brit pressman, paragraphist; newsreader, Colloq scribe, newsmonger, US and Canadian legman, news-hawk, news-hound, news-hen: Journalists crowded round the minister, urging her to make a statement.
jumpy adj. nervous, agitated, anxious, jittery, fidgety, restless, edgy, on edge, tense, shaky, skittish, fretful, uneasy, queasy, restive, panicky: Do you think he was jumpy because we were approaching Count Dracula's castle?
keg n. cask, barrel, butt, hogshead, tun, puncheon: We bought a keg of beer for the party.
kingdom n. 1 realm, empire, sovereignty, principality, monarchy: He sought a suitable wife throughout the kingdom. 2 field, area, domain, province, sphere (of influence), territory, bailiwick, Colloq turf: The operating theatre is the surgeon's kingdom.
knot n. 1 snarl, gnarl, tangle; tie, bond: I cannot loosen this knot. 2 collection, assemblage, aggregation, congregation, crowd, cluster, bunch, gathering, company, band, gang, crowd, throng: A small knot of people were standing in front of my painting. --v. 3 fasten, tie, bind, secure, lash, tether, affix, fix, attach: I knotted the rope around his neck.
lacklustre adj. drab, dull, lustreless, flat, dingy, colourless, dismal, dreary, unexciting, boring, prosaic, tiresome, tedious, wearisome, uninteresting, two-dimensional, insipid, vapid, bland, unimaginative, thick, slow, dense, Colloq wishy-washy, blah: He gave a very lacklustre performance as Shylock. She has been leading a lacklustre life since John left.
landlady n. 1 proprietor or proprietress, lady of the house, mistress, manager or Brit manageress, hostess: My landlady owns three bed and breakfasts. 2 See landlord, 2, below.
lass n. girl, young woman, miss, mademoiselle, schoolgirl, Old-fashioned maiden, maid, damsel, demoiselle; Scots lassie, Irish colleen: He has married a young lass from Arbroath.
laurels n.pl. honour(s), distinction(s), fame, awards, tributes, rewards, acclaim, acclamation, glory, renown, celebrity, popularity, reputation; successes, accomplishments: With no new fields to conquer, he is resting on his laurels.
leadership n. direction, guidance, management, directorship, administration, supervision, command, regulation, control, operation, influence, initiative; governorship, superintendence, running: The company made huge profits under Katherine's leadership. The leadership of the country at this time was in the hands of the privileged class.
leave n. 1 permission, authorization, consent, freedom, liberty, licence, sanction, dispensation: Who gave you leave to borrow my car? 2 furlough, leave of absence, time off, sabbatical, recess, holiday, vacation: I am overworked and badly in need of some leave. 3 departure: He took his leave of us at last.
leisure n. 1 spare or free time, time (off), liberty, freedom, opportunity: How many people these days have the leisure to do what they like? 2 holiday, vacation, respite, relief, rest, recreation, relaxation, ease, breathing-space, quiet, tranquillity, repose, US military rest and recreation, R and R: Everyone needs a few days of leisure now and then. 3 at leisure. a unoccupied, inactive, retired, resting, free, on holiday or chiefly US and Canadian vacation; at liberty, available, unemployed: I have been at leisure for a year now. b Often, at one's leisure. at one's convenience, when convenient, unhurriedly, in one's own time: I shall mow the lawn at my leisure. --adj. 4 recreational: The 'leisure industry' is booming with theme parks opening throughout the country. 5 free, unoccupied, non-working, unencumbered, idle, holiday, vacation: How do you usually spend your leisure time?
let-up n. cease, stop, stopping, ceasing, cessation, surcease, break, interruption, pause, intermission, suspension, time out or off; moderation, lessening, abatement, diminution, relief, hesitation, respite, relaxation: I was nagged without let-up about getting the work done by the end of the month.
lie v. 1 prevaricate, fabricate, misrepresent, invent, commit perjury, perjure or forswear oneself, Colloq fib: If he says that I ate the last cake, he's lying. --n. 2 falsehood, untruth, falsification, misrepresentation, fiction, invention, prevarication, fib, fabrication, Colloq story, cock-and-bull story, (tall) tale, whopper, US fish story, fish tale: His claim of having been attacked was found to be a lie.
likeness n. 1 similarity, resemblance, correspondence, analogy, agreement, parallelism: The artist has caught her likeness in the second painting. 2 copy, replica, facsimile, duplicate, reproduction, model, representation, portrait, painting, picture, drawing, photograph, sculpture,statue, statuette, image, simulacrum, icon or ikon: He sells miniature likenesses of the Eiffel Tower to tourists. 3 appearance, face, figure, image: The premier's likeness appears on posters throughout the country.
link n. 1 tie, bond, coupling, connector, vinculum; element, constituent, component: A chain is no stronger than its weakest link. 2 connection, tie-up, tie-in, relation, relationship, association, affiliation, interdependence: What is the link between her arrival and his sudden departure? He thinks he's identified the missing link. --v. 3 Often, link up. couple, join, fasten (together), unite; concatenate: They linked arms to form a barrier. 4 connect, tie (up or in or together), associate, relate, identify with: I cannot help feeling that this murder links up with the others.
live adj. 1 living, breathing, animate, viable, existent; material, physical, tangible, real, actual, palpable: She said she'd rather be a live beggar than a dead countess. My cat brought me a live mouse into the house the other day. 2 energetic, lively, spirited, vigorous, active, dynamic, busy; current, contemporary: Our new advertising agency seems to have some live ideas. The other party made nuclear disarmament a live issue in the election. 3 burning, glowing, flaming, alight, red-hot, white-hot: A live coal popped out of the grate onto the carpet. 4 loaded, explosive, unexploded, combustible: Builders have dug up a live bomb in London. 5 charged, electrified: Don't touch a live wire or you'll get a shock. --v. 6 breathe, exist; function: There has never lived a more gifted scholar. She lives as a recluse. 7 survive, persist, last, persevere, endure; spend, continue, live out, complete, end, conclude, finish: He lived out his days happily in Torquay. 8 reside, dwell, be; abide, stay, remain, lodge, room: He normally lives in Acton, but at the moment he's living with his mother in Kent. 9 subsist, get along, survive, fare: Many old-age pensioners complain that they have barely enough to live on.
locale n. site, location, spot, place, setting, venue, neighbourhood, situation, locality: We moved the locale of the film to Spain.
look-alike n. twin, double, exact or perfect likeness or match, clone, Colloq spitting image or spit and image; doppelgnger; Slang (dead) ringer: She is such a perfect look-alike of Princess Di's that people follow her in the street.
lot n. 1 collection, batch, consignment, assortment, group, portion, set, quantity, grouping, apportionment: They are expecting a new lot of furniture this afternoon. 2 luck, fortune, destiny, fate, kismet, plight, doom, end: It seems to be my lot to stay in the same place all my life. 3 lottery, drawing, raffle, drawing lots or straws: The winner will be decided by lot. 4 share, portion, division, interest, part, allotment, assignment, apportionment, ration, allowance: Marguerite was bequeathed the house, while my lot included the paintings. 5 a lot or lots. a a good or great deal: You have a lot of nerve! I'd give a lot to be able to paint like you. He got into a lot of trouble. b much, loads or a load, mountains or a mountain, tons or a ton, barrels or a barrel, stacks or a stack, piles or a pile, heaps or a heap, masses or a mass, oceans , Colloq oodles, scads, US gobs: She has lots of money. c many, myriad, numerous, countless, reams, infinite or an infinity, quantities or a quantity, enormous numbers or an enormous number, Colloq oodles, scads, loads, tons, masses,: There are lots of fish in the sea. 6 the lot. everything, Colloq the whole kit and caboodle, all: I'll give you a fiver for the lot.
loyal adj. faithful, true, dependable, devoted, trustworthy, trusty, steady, steadfast, staunch, trusted, reliable, stable, unswerving, unwavering, dedicated, constant, patriotic: Give me twelve men loyal and true and we shall rout the enemy.
lurch n. leave in the lurch. desert, abandon, forsake; drop, jilt: He left her in the lurch, waiting at the church.
lying n. 1 prevarication, fibbing, mendacity, mendaciousness, falsification, untruthfulness, perjury; dishonesty, deceit, duplicity: She was accused of lying while under oath. --adj. 2 untruthful, false, mendacious, hypocritical, dishonest, deceitful, deceptive, duplicitous, treacherous, perfidious: Whoever told you they had found the solution is a lying scoundrel.
magician n. 1 conjuror or conjurer, illusionist, wizard, sorcerer, sorceress, magus, necromancer, enchanter, enchantress, Merlin, Houdini, Circe, witch, warlock; thaumaturge, theurgist: The court magician changed the pebbles into precious stones by a wave of his wand. 2 marvel, miracle-worker, virtuoso, wizard, genius, master, Colloq whiz: Mary Lou Williams is a magician on the boogie-woogie piano.
major adj. 1 larger, greater, bigger, main, chief, important: Henderson grabbed the major portion of the credit. 2 vital, important, critical, crucial, principal, foremost, paramount, primary, prime, main, big, biggest, pre-eminent, notable, noteworthy, significant, outstanding, dominant, dominating; serious, grave, worst: The major problem in commercial kitchens is sanitation.
manhandle v. maul, paw, rough up, batter, beat (up), pummel, abuse, mistreat, maltreat, ill-treat, trounce, belabour, Slang knock about or around, clobber: His captors manhandled him into a car and drove off.
mantle n. 1 cloak, cape, wrap, shawl, pelisse, pelerine: Over his armour he wore a mantle embroidered with his bearing. 2 covering, cover, sheet, veil, blanket, screen, cloak, shroud, pall, canopy, curtain: A mantle of snow lay on the ground. --v. 3 cover, clothe, envelop, surround, encircle, shroud, veil, screen, obscure, cloak, conceal, hide, mask, wrap, disguise: The mountains were brilliantly mantled and capped with snow.
marsh n. swamp, bog, fen, slough, quagmire: The marsh teems with new life in the spring. martial adj. 1 warlike, belligerent, bellicose, pugnacious, militant: We had no suspicion of their martial intentions. He is an expert in the martial arts. 2 military, soldierly, courageous, brave, valorous, valiant, stalwart, staunch, stout-hearted: The speech was intended to rouse the soldiers' martial spirit.
mate n. 1 companion, associate, colleague, fellow, chap, co-worker, comrade, crony, ally, friend, alter ego, Colloq chum, pal, US buddy, cohort, Slang Brit cully, china: After work, my mates and I stop off for a beer or two (or three ) . 2 spouse, partner, helpmeet, helpmate, consort, husband or wife, better half, Colloq hubby, old man or lady or woman, lord and master, US bride, Slang trouble and strife (= 'wife'): He scarcely seems a worthy mate for the winner of a Miss World contest. 3 fellow, twin, counterpart, parallel, one of a pair: Have you seen the mate to this sock anywhere? --v. 4 pair (up), match (up), marry, wed, join, unite, couple, link (up): People should be free to mate with whom they wish. 5 breed, couple, copulate, pair (up): The zoo was able to get the rhinoceroses to mate. A lion was mated with a tiger to produce a tigon. 6 match (up), fit (together), synchronize, join: I cannot get these gears to mate.
maximum n. 1 most, utmost, uttermost, greatest, peak, extreme, extremity, pinnacle, top, highest, (upper) limit: Turn the volume up to the maximum. 2 zenith, pinnacle, peak, limit, apex, acme, apogee, climax, crest, high(est) point, top, summit: Her career reached its maximum in the 1930s. --adj. 3 maximal, greatest, most, utmost, uttermost, superlative, supreme, paramount, extreme, highest, top, topmost, climactic, crowning: The maximum amount that I can afford for a car is 2000.
measly adj. sparse, scant, scanty, meagre, paltry, pathetic, skimpy, puny, piddling, miserly, niggardly, miserable, beggarly, stingy, Colloq Brit mingy: 'Nouvelle cuisine' is the name given to a restaurateur's design to serve decorative, but measly, portions.
meek adj. 1 modest, humble, submissive, unassuming, unambitious, unpretentious, mild, bland, patient, deferential, shy, retiring, lowly: The meek shall inherit the earth. 2 tame, timid, weak, docile, compliant, submissive, yielding, acquiescent, docile, unaggressive, non-militant, tractable, manageable, subdued, repressed, spiritless, suppressed, broken, Colloq wimpish: The people are meek and will not offer any resistance to such dictatorial government.
memorialize v. honour, commemorate, pay homage or respect or tribute to, remember, eulogize, celebrate, mark: His life, devoted to botany, is memorialized in these beautiful gardens.
mercy n. compassion, pity, forbearance, quarter, tolerance, sympathy, favour, forgiveness, kindness, kindliness, leniency, tenderness, humanity, humaneness, liberality, kind-heartedness, tender-heartedness, soft-heartedness, graciousness, generosity, magnanimity, benignity, beneficence, charity, thoughtfulness, consideration, indulgence: May the Lord have mercy on your soul. We could expect no mercy from that slave-driver.
mete v. Usually, mete out. deal (out), apportion, distribute, dole (out), allot, assign, allocate, parcel out, share (out), ration (out), measure out, dispense, hand out, give out, pass out, Colloq dish out: Punishment was meted out to those who deserved it.
milieu n. environment, climate, surroundings, environs, background, ambience or ambiance, sphere, setting, atmosphere, medium, element, precincts: The British Library was the perfect milieu in which to pursue his research and writing.
minimal adj. least, smallest, minutest, littlest, tiniest, slightest; minimum, nominal, token: As a house plant, the cactus requires minimal attention. There is a minimal charge for service.
misanthropic adj. man-hating; antisocial, unsocial, unfriendly, egocentric, egoistic: In his misanthropic moods, Joel disdains human company.
miser n. skinflint, hoarder, niggard, penny-pincher, pinchpenny, cheese-parer, Scrooge, Colloq cheapskate, US tightwad: For that old miser, charity begins and ends at home.
mismatched adj. mismated, ill-matched, ill-mated, incompatible, unfit, inappropriate, unsuited, unsuitable, incongruous, misallied, disparate, uncongenial, inconsistent, inharmonious, discordant: With her interest in art and his in football, they made a mismatched pair.
mistreat v. abuse, maltreat, ill-use, ill-treat, misuse, damage, manhandle, harm; hurt, injure, molest, maul, rough up, brutalize: He was found guilty of mistreating his dogs. She was mistreated by her husband for years.
mobbed adj. crowded, packed, thronged, congested, teeming, swarming, full, filled: They tried to leave by the emergency exit, but that was mobbed, too.
mogul n. magnate, tycoon, baron, mandarin, Colloq big shot, big gun, big cheese, Pooh Bah, bigwig, big wheel, big (White) Chief, big Daddy, hotshot, VIP, big noise, nabob, Slang US Mr Big: In the old days, he was one of the moguls in Hollywood.
monolithic adj. massive, huge, enormous, monumental, imposing, colossal, gigantic, giant; featureless, uniform, undifferentiated, characterless; rigid, impenetrable, invulnerable, unbending, inflexible, solid, stolid, intractable, immovable: These monolithic international conglomerates, assembled with the aid of junk bonds, staffed by yuppies, and controlling markets worth hundreds of billions, resemble the monolithic glass towers that house them.
morality n. 1 ethics, morals, ethicalness, moralness, principle(s), mores, integrity, propriety, standards, ideals; honesty, right, rightness, righteousness, rectitude, justice, fair play, fairness, decency, uprightness, integrity: Morality should not be conditioned by expediency. 2 behaviour, conduct, habit(s), custom(s): Are you suggesting that utilitarianism is a guide for morality?
motto n. maxim, proverb, saying, adage, saw, aphorism, apophthegm or apothegm, gnome, slogan, byword, catchword, battle-cry, guide, moral, principle, rule, precept: The motto of the Order of the Garter is Honi soit qui mal y pense, 'Shame on whoever thinks ill of it'.
movable adj. moveable, floating, variable, changeable, unfixed; portable, transportable, transferable or transferrable: Easter Sunday is a movable feast and has no fixed date on the calendar. Recent developments have produced computers that are smaller than an attach case and easily movable.
mumble v. murmur, mutter, say inarticulately, utter indistinctly, swallow one's words: He mumbled the name of the person who had shot him, but she didn't catch it.
musty adj. 1 mouldy, damp, mildewed, mildewy, sour, rancid, spoilt, decayed, rotten, putrid, fetid or foetid, fusty, stale: Open the windows to get rid of that musty odour. 2 stale, old-fashioned, antiquated, antediluvian, ancient, out of date, bygone, pass, old hat, obsolete, archaic, tired, hoary, worn out, trite, clichd, stereotypical: I've heard all those musty jokes of his a thousand times before.
nag v. 1 Sometimes, nag at. annoy, irritate, irk, pester, criticize, ride, scold, carp (at), upbraid, badger, harass, harry, vex, henpeck, torment, hector, pick at, goad, pick on, find fault with, berate, nettle, bully, provoke, plague, worry, bother, Brit chivvy or chivy or chevy, Colloq needle: He nags her day and night about going on a diet. --n. 2 scold, harpy, pest, shrew, virago, termagant, fishwife: You certainly can be a terrible nag, can't you?
narrator n. reporter, storyteller, raconteur, taleteller, teller of tales, anecdotist or anecdotalist, relator, annalist, chronicler, describer, author; voice-over: We sat spellbound waiting for the narrator to continue.
nauseated adj. sickened, disgusted, repelled, revolted, offended, sick (to one's stomach), queasy, squeamish; seasick, carsick, airsick: They were nauseated when they saw the cadavers. I became nauseated by the rocking of the boat.
necessary adj. 1 indispensable, essential, required, needed, compulsory, requisite, vital, demanded, imperative, obligatory, needful, of the essence, important, of the utmost importance, top-priority, high-priority, urgent, exigent, compelling, life-and-death or life-or-death: A good diet is necessary for good health. It is necessary that you come at once. Take the necessary steps to get the job done. 2 inevitable, unavoidable, inescapable, ineluctable: In the circumstances, we find it necessary to ask for your resignation. 3 sure, certain, predetermined, predestined, fated, inexorable; resulting, resultant: The necessary outcome of the affair was that the child was returned to her natural parents. --n. 4 See necessity, 1, below.
nerve n. 1 courage, coolness, boldness, bravery, intrepidity, determination, valour, daring, fearlessness, dauntlessness, pluck, mettle, spirit, fortitude, will, tenacity, steadfastness, staunchness, firmness, doughtiness, resoluteness, Colloq guts, grit, gumption, spunk, US sand, Brit bottle, US moxie , Taboo slang balls: It took a lot of nerve to go back into that burning building. 2 effrontery, brazenness, gall, impertinence, brass, impudence, insolence, audacity, brashness, presumption, presumptuousness, temerity, Colloq cheek, sauce, chutzpah, Slang crust: You have a lot of nerve, talking to your mother that way! 3 get on someone's nerves. annoy, irritate, upset: That loud rock music gets on my nerves. 4 nerves. tension, nervousness, hysteria, anxiety, fretfulness, stress, worry, apprehension, fright, Colloq the jitters, Slang the willies, the heebie-jeebies, US the whim-whams: I had a bad case of nerves before learning the doctor's diagnosis.
nice adj. 1 pleasant, agreeable, amiable, amicable, friendly, cordial, warm, gracious, warm-hearted, kind, kindly, outgoing, charming, genial, delightful, courteous, polite, refined, gentlemanly, ladylike, winsome, likeable, attractive: They are one of the nicest couples I have ever met. 2 good, satisfactory, commendable, worthy, worthwhile: The manager said that I had done a nice job in preparing the specifications. 3 good, fine, superb, superior, attentive, sharp, acute, keen, careful, exact, exacting, rigorous; precise, accurate, unerring, scrupulous, meticulous, punctilious, discriminating, discriminative, perceptive, delicate, fastidious, flawless, faultless, subtle, strict, close, small, slight, minute, complex, complicated, intricate: A diamond cutter must have a nice eye for detail. It is difficult to maintain nice distinctions of meaning among certain words, given that people are so careless with their speech these days. 4 delicate, subtle, sensitive, exquisite, hair-splitting, over-nice, fine, critical, ticklish, dangerous, precarious, perilous, Colloq hairy: The matter of Hong Kong requires some nice political negotiations. 5 trim, well turned out, tidy, neat, fine: Don't you want to look nice for your birthday party? 6 nice and pleasantly, delightfully, pleasingly, agreeably, enjoyably, gratifyingly, satisfyingly, comfortably: It's nice and warm by the fire.
nod v. 1 greet, acknowledge, recognize: The matre d'htel nodded to me as I entered the restaurant. 2 say yes; consent, assent, agree, concur, acquiesce: Asked if she had seen Nick, the barmaid nodded. I asked permission to leave the room and the teacher nodded. 3 doze (off), nap, drowse, drop off, fall asleep: Exhausted travellers nodded in their chairs waiting for their flights to be announced. 4 slip (up), err, make a mistake, be mistaken or wrong; be careless or negligent or lax or inattentive: Sometimes, even Homer nods. --n. 5 signal, sign, cue, indication, gesture: I saw him give a nod to the barber, who suddenly held a cutthroat razor to my throat. 6 approval; consent, acquiescence, concurrence, assent, agreement, Colloq OK or okay: The company has given me the nod to open an office in Acapulco.
none pron. no one, not anyone, nobody, no person; not one; not any; nil: Of all the people I met, none impressed me more than Kathy. I'd give you a sweet if I had one, but I have none. I'd even give you money, but I have none.
norm n. 1 usual, average, mean, normal: The norm for the day is 12 degrees Celsius. 2 model, standard, type, pattern, criterion, rule, measure, gauge, yardstick, benchmark: That style of window became the norm for many years.
notion n. 1 idea, thought, concept, conception, image, impression, general idea, (mental) picture, inkling: She has a pretty good notion of who did it. I haven't the slightest notion of what you are talking about. 2 fancy, whim, crotchet, whimsy, caprice, impulse, inclination, vagary, conceit, quirk, kink: She suddenly took a notion to fly to New York and left.
number n. 1 numeral, integer, figure, digit: The columns of numbers were entered in a neat hand. 2 few, handful, crowd, slew, gang, bunch, party, bevy, covey, troop, company, platoon, swarm, horde, multitude, mob, host, army, mass, hundred, thousand, million, billion; several, many, numbers, legions, US and Canadian slew(s) or slue(s), Colloq loads, tons: A number of people attended the meeting. An enormous number of viruses could fit on the head of a pin. 3 issue; edition, copy: The fourth number of the quarterly is published at the end of the year. --v. 4 count, enumerate, compute, calculate, tally, figure (up), add (up), include, total, tot (up), reckon, sum (up): Who can number the stars?
objective adj. 1 fair, impartial, just, judicious, equitable, neutral, disinterested, dispassionate, open-handed, open-minded, detached, unbiased, unprejudiced, unbigoted, even-handed, uncoloured, unjaundiced: How can you be objective about the guilt or innocence of your own child? --n. 2 target, goal, object, aim, purpose, end (in view), intent, intention, design, aspiration, ambition, hope: If we capture the flag, we shall have gained our objective. My objective is to win the pentathlon.
obsequious adj. low, cringing, toadying, toadyish, sycophantic(al), sycophantish, unctuous, truckling, grovelling, crawling, fawning, deferential, ingratiating, menial, flattering, servile, slavish, subservient, submissive, abject, mealy-mouthed, slimy, Colloq boot-licking, Chiefly Brit smarmy, Taboo slang brown-nosing, Brit arse-kissing, arse-licking, US ass-licking, ass-kissing: He is surrounded with obsequious followers who cater to his every whim.
obstruct v. 1 block, bar, check, prevent, stop (up), arrest, halt, clog, make impassable; bring to a standstill: The vein is obstructed by a large blood clot. A clogged drain is obstructing the water. 2 hamper, slow, impede, interfere with, retard, hinder, interrupt, delay, stay, stall: An overturned truck obstructed traffic on the motorway. 3 preclude, prevent, debar, block, prohibit, forbid, stop, stand in the way of: They are manoeuvring to obstruct her from taking over the company.
ocean n. 1 (deep blue) sea, (bounding) main, high seas, the deep, Davy Jones's locker, the depths, Colloq the briny, the drink: The sails filled, and our tiny craft was swept out into the open ocean. 2 Often, oceans. flood, abundance, multitude, profusion, plethora, Colloq scads, loads, tons, lots, oodles, gobs, zillions: The direct mail campaign yielded oceans of responses.
office n. 1 business, organization, department, firm, house, establishment, company, corporation: Whenever I'm travelling, I always try to phone the office once a day. 2 commission, department, branch; section, division: He was with the overseas office for years. 3 workplace, offices; room, area: Our new office is completely air-conditioned. My office is next to the board room. 4 duty, obligation, responsibility, charge, commission, service, employment, occupation, position, post, appointment, assignment, chore, task, job, place, berth, work, role, function, purpose, part, bit, Colloq thing, Slang shtick: He was appointed to the office of Minister of Health. In her office as Minister of Finance, she wields great power. 5 offices. indulgence, intermediation, auspices, support, advocacy, aegis, help, aid, intercession, mediation, patronage, favour, backing, backup: She appealed to the police chief's good offices to allow her to visit her son.
ominous adj. 1 foreboding, threatening, fateful, dark, black, gloomy, lowering or louring, menacing, sinister; unpropitious, unfavourable, ill-omened, ill-starred, unpromising, star-crossed, inauspicious: With ominous solemnity, the judge placed a black cloth square on his head before passing the death sentence. 2 minatory, warning, admonitory, cautionary: The whispering had taken on ominous overtones. 3 portentous, prophetic, oracular, vaticinal, predictive, prognostic, augural, mantic, sibyllic, meaningful, premonitory, foreshadowing, foretelling, foretokening, indicative: Virtually everything was regarded as ominous in ancient times.
opening n. 1 break, breach, rent, rift, cleft, crack, crevice, fissure, cranny, chink, pit, gap, split, slit, slot, aperture, hole, orifice, separation: Flowers grew from openings in the wall. 2 opportunity, chance, occasion, toe-hold, foothold, Colloq break, toe or foot in the door, Brit look-in: I was waiting for an appropriate opening to make my presentation. 3 job, position, opportunity, vacancy: Is there likely to be an opening in the art department of your company? 4 beginning, commencement, start, birth, origin, outset, onset, inauguration, launch, send-off, initiation, presentation, debut; vernissage, US start-off, start-up: The opening of the autumn social season was marked by Malcolm's birthday party. Aren't you going to the opening at the museum tonight?
opposition n. 1 hostility, antagonism, unfriendliness, resistance, counteraction, disapproval, objection, conflict, defiance, contrast, antipathy, adversity, Colloq flak: There is strong opposition to plans for an amusement arcade. 2 competition, opponent, adversary, competitor, antagonist, enemy, foe, rival, other side: We must overcome the opposition in order to win. 3 in opposition. competing, competitive, antagonistic, hostile, conflicting, in conflict, antithetic(al), opposed, at daggers drawn, in deadly embrace: Although they agree on some points, the parties are in opposition on others.
ordeal n. trial, test, tribulation(s), hardship, affliction, trouble(s), suffering, distress, anguish, nightmare, misery, grief, misfortune, adversity, tragedy, disaster: She never fully recovered from her ordeal at the hands of the kidnappers.
originate v. 1 create, bring about, engender, give birth to, beget, conceive, initiate, inaugurate, start, begin, introduce, launch, found, set up, institute, establish, invent, coin, devise, pioneer, design, contrive, concoct, mastermind, compose, organize, formulate, form, generate, produce, develop, evolve: Wasn't it the Chinese who originated free public health schemes? 2 arise, rise, begin, start, come, spring, stem, flow, issue, emerge, emanate, proceed, grow, develop, evolve, derive, result: Where did the idea of the democratic form of government originate?
outdoor adj. outside, out of doors, alfresco, open-air: Both of them enjoy outdoor activities like hiking and bicycling.
outrageous adj. 1 excessive, extravagant, immoderate, exorbitant, enormous, unreasonable, preposterous, shocking, extreme, unwarranted, exaggerated, unconscionable, inordinate, intolerable, disgraceful, shameful, scandalous: The prices at that restaurant are absolutely outrageous. 2 vicious, cruel, heinous, atrocious, barbaric, inhuman, abusive, beastly, horrible, horrid, horrendous, iniquitous, villainous, wicked, evil, egregious, flagrant, grievous, infamous, execrable, abominable, grisly, hideous, monstrous, vile, unthinkable, foul, awful, unspeakable, appalling, offensive, indecent: The captives suffered the most outrageous treatment at the hands of their conquerors. 3 indecent, offensive, immoral, rude, indelicate, obnoxious, profane, obscene, dirty, filthy, lewd, salacious, foul, smutty, scatological, pornographic, objectionable, repellent, repulsive, nauseating, nauseous, nasty, gross, revolting, shocking, repugnant, disgusting, fulsome, perverted, depraved, dissolute, degenerate, dissipated, debauched, profligate; explicit, unrestrained; foul-mouthed, thersitical, insulting; unseemly, inappropriate, indecorous, improper, naughty, appalling, embarrassing; Literary Fescennine, US shy-making: The sermon denounced the outrageous films, books, magazines, and television programmes to which children are exposed. Warren sometimes says the most outrageous things.
ovation n. applause, acclamation, acclaim, plaudits, cheers, cheering, clapping, laudation, praise, kudos, Colloq (big) hand: At the conclusion of the concerto, the pianist was given a standing ovation.
overhead adv. 1 (up) above, (up) in the air or sky, high up, on high, aloft, skyward: The aeroplanes passed overhead at dawn. --adj. 2 elevated, raised, upper: The crane travels on an overhead track. --n. 3 Brit overheads, US overhead. (basic or fixed) costs, operating cost(s), expense(s), outlay, disbursement(s), running cost(s), expenditure(s), maintenance, cost(s) of doing business: One way to increase profits is by reducing overheads.
overstate v. exaggerate, magnify, hyperbolize, embroider, overstress, colour, make (too) much of, overdraw, overemphasize, stretch, enlarge, inflate, blow up: They might have overstated the problem by asking for a 24-hour police guard.
packet n. 1 package, parcel, pack, batch: We found a packet of your old love-letters in a trunk in the lumber room. 2 loads, lot(s), great deal, fortune, mint, Colloq bundle, pretty penny, pile(s), tidy sum, king's ransom, Brit bomb: He lost a packet on that property when they built a sewage plant alongside it.
paint n. 1 colour, tint, dye, colouring, pigment, stain: I bought the paint and brushes, and started work on the kitchen walls. 2 coating, coat, surface; enamel: The rust has come through the paint here and there. 3 make-up, cosmetics, maquillage, greasepaint, Colloq warpaint, face: Sheila is in her room putting on some paint before we go out. --v. 4 depict, portray, picture, show, represent, delineate, render, draw, limn, characterize, describe: Whistler painted a portrait of my grandmother. Correspondents painted a very grim picture of the plight of the hostages. 5 coat, brush, apply, cover, daub: The doctor painted the area with some medication that soothed the pain. 6 colour, tint, dye, stain, decorate: We are planning to paint the nursery pale blue. 7 paint the town red. make merry, carouse, revel, go on a spree, go out on the town, Colloq whoop it up, live it up, (go on a) pub-crawl, step out, Slang make whoopee, go on a bender or drunk or binge, booze it up: Saturday nights a few of the boys would go out and paint the town red till the wee hours.
pander v. 1 Usually, pander to. satisfy, gratify, humour, indulge, fulfil, bow to, yield to, truckle to, cater to: She is tired of pandering to his every wish. 2 procure, pimp, solicit: I didn't believe he would sink so low as to pander for his business clients. --n. 3 panderer, pimp, procurer, solicitor, whoremonger, White slaver, Slang flesh-pedlar or US also flesh-peddler or flesh-pedler, Brit ponce, mack: The word pander is an eponym for Pandarus, who acted as a sycophantic go-between for Troilus in Chaucer's Troilus and Criseyde .
parallel adj. 1 similar, corresponding, congruent, analogous, analogic(al), correspondent, like, matching, homologous, coordinate, equivalent, coequal, proportional, proportionate, pari passu, mutatis mutandis, in proportion, uniform; contemporary or cotemporary, contemporaneous or cotemporaneous: The situation in Northern Ireland could be compared with a parallel situation in Lebanon. --n. 2 analogue, match, homologue, equivalent, complement, counterpart, equal, coequal: Campbell found many parallels among the legendary heroes of other cultures. 3 analogy, parallelism, equivalence, complementarity, relationship, kinship, correspondence, resemblance, likeness, similarity, symmetry, equality, coequality, parity, correlation; proportion, balance, equiponderance, equipoise, counterbalance, offset: One can draw parallels between the human arm, the fish's fin, and the bird's wing. By way of parallel, consider the flood in the Bible and that in the Gilgamesh epic. --v. 4 correspond to or with, match, equate to or with, be likened to, correlate to or with, compare with or to, imitate, repeat, echo, iterate, reiterate, duplicate, follow, agree with; keep pace with, conform (to), balance, set off, offset, even off or up, be accompanied by, coincide with, Colloq jibe with: In many respects, your attitudes towards life parallel mine when I was your age. A decrease in the rate of inflation supposedly parallels a rise in interest rates.
parley n. 1 conference, discussion, dialogue, palaver, deliberation, meeting, colloquy, colloquium, confabulation, powwow, talk(s), Colloq huddle, confab: The issue will be decided at the executive council's parley. --v. 2 confer, discuss, palaver, deliberate, talk (over), negotiate, deal, Colloq huddle: Would Sitting Bull parley with General Custer?
particle n. atom, molecule, scintilla, spark, mote, suggestion, hint, suspicion, gleam, bit, crumb, jot, tittle, whit, mite, speck, dot, spot, iota, grain, morsel, shred, sliver, scrap, Colloq smidgen or smidgin: There isn't the slightest particle of evidence linking them with the murder.
passionate adj. 1 ardent, eager, intense, fervid, zealous, avid, eager, earnest, zestful, feverish, fanatic(al), vehement, impassioned, emotional, animated, spirited, enthusiastic, vigorous, invigorated, energetic: Passionate environmentalists campaign for better governmental control of carbon dioxide emissions. 2 aroused, lustful, lecherous, erotic, sexual, amorous, sensual, Colloq hot: She tried to resist his passionate advances. 3 quick-tempered, irascible, hotheaded, fiery, testy, huffy or huffish, peevish, cranky, peppery, choleric, touchy, bilious, snappish, volatile, cross, temperamental, irritable, quarrelsome, pugnacious, argumentative, contentious, belligerent, Rare atrabilious or atrabiliar: Valerie gets into a passionate mood whenever she thinks she is being treated unjustly.
paternity n. fatherhood, fathership; parentage, descent, heritage, line, lineage, extraction, family, stock, strain, blood, patrilineage: The child's paternity was established through DNA tests.
pave v. 1 macadamize, tarmac, asphalt, tile, flag, concrete, cover, surface: Europeans thought that the streets of America were paved with gold. 2 pave the way for or to. prepare or smooth the way for, open the door for, make easy or easier for; facilitate, ease: If I talk to him first, perhaps I can pave the way for you to make your proposal.
peccadillo n. slip, error, lapse, mistake, infraction, violation, misdeed, shortcoming, misstep, blunder, faux pas, indiscretion, gaffe, botch, stumble, fault, petty sin, (minor) transgression, trespass, Colloq slip-up, goof: We have to forgive the occasional peccadillo.
peg v. 1 pin, dowel, rod, stick, bolt; thole or thole-pin; clothes-peg, hook: Pegs and glue are often used for fastening good furniture together. Hang your coat on the peg. 2 off the peg. ready-made, ready-to-wear, stock: As bespoke clothing is so dear, I buy mine off the peg. 3 take down a peg (or two). humble, diminish, lower, subdue, suppress, downgrade, dishonour, mortify, humiliate, put down, abase, debase, devalue or devaluate: He was acting a bit high and mighty, so she took him down a peg or two. --v. 4 fasten, secure, make fast, fix, attach, pin: They pegged the tent firmly to the ground. 5 fix, attach, pin, set (by), control by, limit by, restrict, confine, freeze, bind, regulate, govern: In indexing, the rate of inflation is often used for pegging wages. 6 toss, throw, shy, flip, sling, cast: I'll bet a fiver you can't peg that stone across the river. 7 peg away or US also along. work (away) (at), persevere (at), apply oneself (to), persist (in or at), go to or at (it), keep at (it), stick to or with or at (it), stay with or at (it), carry on (with or at), Colloq plug away (at), beaver away (at), hammer or bang or peck away (at): Trevor pegs away at his homework every evening.
penetration n. 1 piercing, perforation, puncturing, incision, puncture, penetrating; inroad, entry, entrance: Penetration of the skull required great effort on the part of the surgeon. Tentatively we attempted the penetration of the jungle. 2 insight, keenness, perception, percipience, intelligence, perspicacity, perspicuity, perspicaciousness, perceptiveness, acuteness, incisiveness, sensitivity, sentience, understanding, acuteness, discernment, discrimination, cleverness, shrewdness, wit, quick-wittedness: We all admired the penetration that was shown by the examiner in the questions she asked.
perception n. 1 appreciation, grasp, apprehension, understanding, comprehension, knowledge, perspective, view: Mrs Hart's perception of the situation is quite different from mine. 2 intuition, insight, instinct, feel, feeling, sense, impression, awareness, idea, notion, consciousness, realization: Norton hasn't the slightest perception of what is going on behind his back at the office.
performer n. actor or actress, artiste, Thespian, trouper, player: They received their training as performers in a repertory company.
permanence n. permanency, stability, durability, fixedness, changelessness, lasting quality, longevity, endurance, persistence, dependability, reliability, survival: The new roofing material is being tested for permanence.
perquisite n. consideration, emolument, bonus, (fringe) benefit, extra, bonus, dividend, gratuity, tip, douceur, baksheesh, token (of appreciation), US lagniappe or lagnappe, Colloq perk: It was traditional to provide each director with a company car as a perquisite.
perspective n. 1 (point of) view, viewpoint, standpoint, prospect, vantage point, position, angle, Colloq where one is coming from: I can see that my view would be illogical from his perspective. 2 attitude, position, angle, approach, sentiment, outlook, lookout: Management has a different perspective on what is good for the company.
pessimistic n. gloomy, negative, despairing, hopeless, inauspicious, depressed, despondent, dejected, melancholy, downhearted, heavy-hearted, defeatist, glum, sad, blue, unhappy, cheerless, joyless, cynical, bleak, forlorn: The bears in the Stock Exchange take a pessimistic view of share prices.
pharmacist n. pharmacologist, Rather old-fashioned or formal apothecary, Brit (pharmaceutical) chemist, US and Canadian druggist, Formal posologist, Colloq pill pusher, US pill roller: The pharmacist said that those pills have bad side-effects.
photographer n. lensman, lenswoman, cameraman, camerawoman, cinematographer, paparazzo (pl., paparazzi), Old-fashioned photographist: The photographers clustered round the prime minister.
piercing adj. 1 strident, shrill, harsh, ear-splitting, ear-shattering, high-pitched, screaming, shrieking, screeching, loud, blaring: The piercing sound of the police siren made me sit bolt-upright in bed. 2 probing, searching, penetrating, sharp, keen; arresting, gripping, spellbinding, enthralling, fascinating, entrancing: I was completely transfixed by her piercing green eyes. 3 penetrating, icy, frosty, frigid, chilling, freezing, cold, numbing, keen, wintry, arctic, raw, bitter, fierce, biting, nipping, nippy: Shivering in that piercing wind I thought I'd never be warm again. 4 stabbing, shooting, excruciating, exquisite, acute, sharp, severe, agonizing, fierce, intense, painful, racking: I suddenly felt a piercing pain in my left ear.
pincers n.pl. pliers, nippers, tweezers: Can you get the nail out with these pincers?
pitched adj. organized, planned, deliberate, coordinated, arranged, systematized: The two armies fought a pitched battle on the plain.
plank n. board, timber, slab: The flooring was made up of wide planks laid side by side.
playful adj. 1 (high-)spirited, cheerful, frisky, frolicsome, kittenish, sprightly, fun-loving, sportive, coltish, mischievous, puckish, impish, elfish, devilish: The cat didn't mean to scratch you, she was just being playful. 2 joking, facetious, teasing, roguish, waggish, jesting, humorous, tongue-in-cheek: Cleo's in a playful mood today, isn't she?
pliable adj. 1 flexible, pliant, elastic, plastic, fictile, malleable, workable, bendable, bendy, ductile, flexuous, supple; lithe, limber: This substance remains pliable only while it is warm. 2 tractable, adaptable, flexible, pliant, compliant, persuadable or persuasible, impressionable, susceptible, responsive, receptive, docile, manageable, yielding: The other directors may not be as pliable when it comes to improving employee benefits.
ply n. layer, leaf, thickness, fold: These seams are sewn through two plies of fabric.
poison n. 1 toxin, venom, bane; miasma, mephitis: The chemical plant was found to be releasing poisons into the atmosphere. He kills rats using poison. 2 virus, bane, cancer, canker, corrupt or evil influence, pestilence, plague, blight: The drug barons continue to spread their poison throughout the world. --v. 3 defile, adulterate, infect, taint, pollute; contaminate, debase, pervert, vitiate, subvert, warp, envenom: Chemicals from the nearby plant have poisoned the drinking-water. Why have you poisoned the child's mind against eating spinach? 4 murder, kill, do away with, destroy, dispatch or despatch: Lucrezia Borgia poisoned her enemies in ingenious ways.
pollute v. 1 contaminate, adulterate, befoul, foul, soil, spoil, taint, stain, dirty, sully, blight, poison: These factories must be prevented from continuing to pollute the atmosphere. 2 corrupt, desecrate, profane, defile, violate: The altar was polluted because it had been touched by a non-believer.
populous adj. crowded, (heavily) populated, peopled, teeming, thronged, crawling, swarming, jammed, jam-packed, packed: The populous cities contrast with the sparsely inhabited rural areas.
poseur n. posturer, exhibitionist, pretender, impostor, masquerader, attitudinizer; fake, faker, dissembler, fraud, Colloq show-off, phoney or US also phony: He talks about literature, but he's a poseur who just spouts the opinions of others.
poster n. placard, notice, bill, advertisement, announcement, broadside, broadsheet; circular, flier: Who designed that striking poster for the new play?
pounce v. 1 Often, pounce on or upon. spring (on or upon), leap (at or on), swoop down (on or upon), fall upon, jump (at or on), strike, take by surprise or unawares, attack, ambush, Colloq mug: As I rounded the corner, three youths pounced on me, stole my bag, and ran off. --n. 2 spring, leap, swoop, jump: The cat was on the mantel shelf in a single pounce.
praiseworthy adj. commendable, laudable, admirable, creditable, worthy, meritorious, deserving, exemplary: However praiseworthy your motives were, you did not stop to consider the consequences.
precinct n. 1 Usually, precincts. area, territory, region, province, environs, purlieus, borders, bounds, confines: Does he have any authority outside the precincts of the city? 2 sphere, neighbourhood, zone, sector, section, quarter, district, locale: In some US cities, the area covered by a police station is called a precinct.
predatory adj. 1 predacious or predaceous, carnivorous, preying, raptorial: Despite domestication, dogs and cats are predatory animals. 2 rapacious, ravenous, plundering, robbing, pillaging, marauding, despoiling, looting, piratical, vulturine, avaricious, greedy, voracious, larcenous, thieving, extortionate, usurious: Predatory pirates once ravaged the Mediterranean. Keep out of the hands of predatory money-lenders, my son.
preface n. 1 introduction, foreword, prologue, preamble, Formal proem, prolegomenon, exordium: By way of preface, I should like to say how happy I am to be here. The preface to the book is far too long. --v. 2 precede, introduce, prefix, begin, open: The speaker prefaced his acceptance speech with a tribute to his predecessor.
premise n. 1 premiss, assumption, proposition, postulate, hypothesis, conjecture, assertion, supposition, thesis, presupposition, proposal, theorem, surmise, basis, ground: He started out with the premise that time had a beginning and will have an end. --v. 2 assume, propose, postulate, hypothesize, hypothecate, conjecture, posit, assert, suppose, presuppose, theorize, surmise, put or set forth, predicate, argue: If you accept what Einstein premised in the Special Theory of Relativity, then you accept that space is curved.
prescriptive adj. dictatorial, constrictive, didactic, restrictive, dogmatic, authoritarian, overbearing, autocratic, imperious: As grammar is a description of how language works, it cannot be prescriptive.
presume v. 1 assume, take for granted, suppose, surmise, infer, suppose, presuppose, take it, gather, understand, think, believe, imagine, suspect, fancy, conjecture, postulate, posit, theorize, speculate, hypothesize, hypothecate, US and Canadian guess: For some unaccountable reason, we presumed that your train would arrive on time. Dr Livingstone, I presume? 2 dare, take the liberty, be so presumptuous as, make (so) bold (as), have the audacity or effrontery, go so far as, venture: Who is he to presume to judge others? 3 Often, presume on or upon. encroach (on or upon), impose (on or upon), take liberties (with), intrude (on or upon or into): I hate to presume on our friendship, but could you lend me some money?
prevalent adj. universal, catholic, common, frequent, prevailing, current, ubiquitous, pervasive, omnipresent, general, usual, customary, commonplace, extensive, widespread, established, ascendant, dominant, predominant, governing, ruling: A desire for change is prevalent throughout the country.
priestly adj. clerical, ecclesiastic, pastoral, hieratic, sacerdotal; ministerial, canonical, missionary: She has taken her priestly vows.
prisoner n. convict, trusty; internee, detainee; Colloq jailbird or Brit also gaolbird, lifer, Slang con, Brit (old) lag, Old-fashioned ticket-of-leave man, US two-time or three-time loser: Prisoners' letters were censored.
problem n. 1 difficulty, trouble, question, dilemma, quandary, predicament, complication, hornet's nest, imbroglio, mess, muddle, stew, Colloq can of worms, fine kettle of fish, (pretty) pickle, Brit facer: The Chancellor must constantly deal with the problems of the country's economy. 2 puzzle, conundrum, poser, riddle, question, enigma, puzzler, Colloq mind-boggler, hard or tough nut to crack: The problem is how to get the yolk out without breaking the shell. --adj. 3 unruly, unmanageable, intractable, uncontrollable, difficult, ungovernable, refractory, incorrigible, obstreperous, delinquent, maladjusted, disturbed, emotionally upset: He teaches at a school where most of the students are problem children.
prodigy n. 1 (child or girl or boy) genius, wonder child, Wunderkind, mastermind, talent, intellect, intellectual or mental giant, wizard, virtuoso, Colloq brain, Einstein, whiz-kid or whizz-kid, whiz or whizz, walking dictionary or encyclopedia or encyclopaedia: She was a prodigy at the age of six and went on to become a great concert performer. 2 wonder, marvel, phenomenon, sensation, miracle: Some regarded the painting Nude Descending a Staircase a prodigy of cubist art.
profitable adj. 1 beneficial, productive, lucrative, fruitful, (well-)paying, well-paid, worthwhile, effective, cost-effective, gainful, remunerative, money-making, rewarding: I had never thought of being a pavement artist as a profitable enterprise. Playing professional golf can be very profitable - if you win tournaments. 2 beneficial, helpful, useful, utilitarian, valuable, worthwhile, advantageous, productive, rewarding: She gave me a lot of good advice that I found profitable in my professional life.
progressive adj. 1 advancing, continuing, developing, increasing, growing, ongoing, continuous, step by step, gradual: The doctors noted the progressive deterioration in his condition. With the onset of spring, we shall see progressive improvement in the weather. 2 reformist, revisionist, liberal, radical, revolutionary, avant-garde, advanced, dynamic: Carrie was soon regarded as one of the more progressive thinkers of her day. --n. 3 reformist, reformer, revisionist, liberal, leftist, left-winger: Once a conservative, he did a complete volte-face after the war and became a progressive.
promising adj. hopeful, encouraging, favourable, auspicious, positive, rosy, optimistic, propitious, cheering, full of promise, reassuring, heartening: I see a promising future for you as a dancer.
properly adv. 1 appropriately, fittingly, correctly, well, becomingly, suitably, politely, decently, decorously, nicely: If you cannot behave properly I shall have to ask you to leave. 2 duly, appropriately, well, suitably, rightly, correctly, aptly: Are they properly equipped for the rescue mission?
propriety n. 1 correctness, properness, conformity, suitableness, appropriateness, suitability, aptness, fitness, seemliness, decorum; advisability, wisdom: I questioned the propriety of concealing this information from shareholders. 2 protocol, good or proper form, punctilio, etiquette, politeness, courtesy, politesse, refinement, sedateness, dignity, modesty, decorum, decency, breeding, respectability, gentility, grace, mannerliness: He always behaved with the utmost propriety in the presence of his aunt. 3 the proprieties. the social graces, the amenities, the civilities, formality or the formalities, social convention or the social conventions, social procedure or codes, accepted practice, tradition, ceremony, ritual: He only observes the proprieties when he wants to make a good impression.
protean adj. variable, ever-changing, multiform, variable, mutable, changeable, labile, polymorphous or polymorphic, kaleidoscopic: The magic ring gave him protean powers to appear now as an eagle, now as a serpent.
proverb n. saying, maxim, aphorism, saw, adage, apophthegm or apothegm, axiom, moral, moralism, homily, dictum, gnome, epigram, commonplace, platitude, truism, clich, bromide: According to the old proverb, 'A fool and his money are soon parted'.
prowess n. 1 ability, skill, skilfulness, aptitude, adroitness, dexterity, dexterousness, adeptness, facility, finesse, expertise, mastery, genius, talent, know-how, ingenuity, capability, proficiency: Her prowess as a sculptor is unquestioned. 2 bravery, valour, courage, boldness, daring, intrepidity, dauntlessness, mettle, stout-heartedness, valiance, lion-heartedness, fearlessness, gallantry, doughtiness, fortitude: He was famed for his prowess in single combat.
psychology n. (mental) make-up, constitution, attitude, behaviour, thought processes, thinking, psyche, nature, feeling(s), emotion(s), rationale, reasoning: I cannot understand the psychology of fascism.
pulley n. sheave, block: The rope is run through a system of pulleys, called a tackle, for lifting weights.
punitive adj. chastening, castigatory, disciplinary, retributive, punitory, retaliatory, correctional: A punitive expedition was sent there to quell the colonists' uprising.
purity n. 1 pureness, faultlessness, correctness, flawlessness, perfection, spotlessness, cleanness, cleanliness, clarity; healthfulness, wholesomeness, salubrity; innocuousness, harmlessness: The purity of the drinking-water has been affected by the nearby chemical plant. 2 chastity, chasteness, virginity, virtuousness, virtue, morality, propriety, honesty, integrity, rectitude, properness, innocence, guilelessness, decency, decorousness, modesty, blamelessness, sinlessness: We never had any reason to doubt the purity of their character.
put-up adj. (secretly) preconceived, prearranged, plotted, preconcerted: If the butler had a hand in it, you know it was a put-up job.
quarry n. prey, game, prize, object: The hunter's dogs had run their quarry to ground. Wealthy widows were regarded as fair quarry by the swindlers.
questionable adj. doubtful, dubious, debatable, moot, disputable, borderline, suspect, suspicious, shady; open to question, in question, in dispute, problematic(al), uncertain, arguable, unsure, unreliable, ambiguous: The evidence shows that the defendant engaged in questionable banking practices while a director of Offshore Ltd. The advantages of quick divorce are questionable.
quiver v. 1 shake, tremble, vibrate, shiver, quaver; shudder, tremor, oscillate, fluctuate, wobble: He felt his lips quivering as he told her that he was dying. The outcome of the contest quivered in the balance. --n. 2 tremble, quaver, shudder, spasm, shake, tremor, shiver: Pierced by the dart, the tiny bird fell to the earth, gave a little quiver, and lay still.
raconteur n. storyteller, anecdotalist or anecdotist, narrator, relater or relator, Colloq spinner of yarns: The after-dinner speaker was a marvellous raconteur with a wealth of stories about the theatre.
rail n. 1 bar, rod, handrail, foot-rail , towel-rail; railing, banisters, balustrade, baluster, fence: Don't lean on the rail or it will break. 2 by or via rail. by train, by railway or US also railroad: We travelled by rail from Paris to Geneva.
ramp n. slope, grade, gradient, incline; rise, ascent, acclivity; descent, dip, declivity: There is a special ramp in the theatre for wheelchair access.
ransom n. 1 redemption, rescue, deliverance; release, liberation: The envoy was held to ransom by a fanatical band of zealots. 2 payment, payout, pay-off, price: The police refuse to reveal the amount of the ransom given to the kidnappers. --v. 3 redeem, rescue, release, deliver: The boy was ransomed for 10,000.
rarefied adj. 1 thin, lean, attenuated, diluted, sparse, scant, scanty: As we climbed higher, the rarefied atmosphere made breathing more difficult. 2 exalted, lofty, elevated, high, sublime, noble, high: I feel out of place in the rarefied atmosphere of academia. 3 cliquish, clannish, exclusive, private, select, esoteric: Clarence copes well in the rarefied atmosphere of Whitehall's corridors of power.
rattle v. 1 clatter: An acorn dropped from an overhanging tree and rattled down the tin roof. 2 shake, vibrate, jar, joggle, jiggle: The wind was strong enough to rattle the windows in their frames. 3 unnerve, disconcert, discomfit, disturb, perturb, shake, discountenance, upset, agitate, put off, Chiefly US and Canadian faze: They are only trying to rattle us by saying that we might lose our jobs if we strike. 4 jounce, bounce, bump, jolt, speed, hurtle: The stagecoach came rattling down the road, swaying wildly. 5 rattle off. recite, list, utter, reel off, run through, enumerate, call off: The announcer rattled off a long list of trains cancelled because of the storm. 6 rattle on. chatter, babble, jabber, gibber, prate, prattle, blabber, cackle, blather, ramble, Chiefly Brit witter, natter, Slang US run off at the mouth: The speaker kept rattling on and on about the delights of collecting beer cans. --n. 7 clatter, racket, noise; rale or rle, crackle, crackling; death-rattle: I heard the rattle of the beans and knew you were about to grind the coffee. The doctor said he didn't like the rattle in my chest. 8 clapper, sistrum, US noise-maker: Rattles have been used as musical instruments for thousands of years.
reaction n. 1 response, reply, answer, effect, feedback: Did you get any reaction when you told her I had been arrested? Her reaction was to turn over and go back to sleep. 2 repulsion, resistance, counteraction, counterbalance, compensation: A rocket derives forward thrust by reaction against its own exhaust, hence can operate in a vacuum. 3 retaliation, reciprocation, reprisal, revenge: He shot her in reaction to her announcement that she was leaving him.
reap v. 1 harvest, garner, glean, gather (in), mow, take in or up: The land was fertile, and a bountiful crop was reaped. As ye sow, so shall ye reap. 2 profit, bring in, gain, procure, acquire, get, obtain, take in: It is impossible to reap much when there is so small a margin between cost and selling price.
rebuttal n. answer, reply, retort, response, rejoinder, counter-argument, riposte, retaliation, denial, refutation, contradiction, confutation, Colloq comeback: In rebuttal, the defence tried to prove that the witness for the prosecution had been bribed.
reciprocal adj. mutual, exchanged, returned, complementary, correlative, common, shared, joint, requited: The reciprocal courtesies enjoyed among our neighbours benefit us all.
recommend v. 1 counsel, advise, guide, urge, exhort, suggest, advocate, propose, (put) forward, propound, persuade: He recommended that the entire system should be changed. 2 endorse, praise, commend, mention favourably, vouch for, second, subscribe to, back, push, favour, approve, underwrite, stand up for, support, promote, Colloq tout, plug: I wish Charles would stop recommending his brother-in-law for a job with us. 3 make attractive or advisable or interesting or acceptable: Wendover has little to recommend it as a tourist spot.
rectify v. correct, revise, redress, put or set right, cure, repair, remedy, improve, emend, fix, adjust, square, ameliorate: What do you intend to do to rectify the damage you have done?
refined adj. 1 cultivated, cultured, civilized, polished, sophisticated, urbane, elegant, well-bred, genteel, courtly, ladylike, gentlemanly, polite, courteous, mannerly, well-mannered, gracious, gentle, noble, aristocratic, dignified, elevated, Colloq posh: It is seldom that I find myself in such refined company. 2 subtle, discriminating, discerning, sensitive, fastidious, nice, precise, exacting, cultured, educated, cultivated, knowledgeable, advanced, sophisticated: Her taste in the visual arts is fairly refined, but she knows little about music. 3 exact, precise, fine, subtle, sensitive, nice, sophisticated: In his poetry one encounters an extremely refined use of metaphor. These new devices are far more refined than any previously available. 4 purified, clarified, cleansed, pure, clean; distilled: Only refined chemicals may be used in pharmaceuticals.
refusal n. 1 denial, rejection, disapproval, turn-down: She pleaded against the grand vizier's refusal to grant amnesty to her brother. 2 option, choice, privilege, disposal: We were promised first refusal on the house should it come on the market.
regularity n. 1 consistency, constancy, uniformity, evenness, sameness, symmetry, balance, harmony, harmoniousness, orderliness, order, stability, predictability: To the casual observer, nothing interferes with the regularity of planetary movement. 2 routine, reliability, dependability, steadiness, invariability; pace, rhythm, cadence: Mr Warbridge listens to the six o'clock evening news with unfailing regularity. Our business depends on the regularity of the postal service. The regularity of the ticking of the clock is driving me mad.
rejoice v. delight, exult, glory, celebrate, revel, be happy or delighted or pleased or overjoyed or elated or glad, Colloq be tickled (pink): We all rejoiced to be home once again after the ordeal.
relevance n. relevancy, appropriateness, aptness, pertinence, bearing, connection, affinity, tie-in, relation, significance, suitability, suitableness, applicability, application, applicableness: What you just said has no relevance whatsoever to the issue under discussion.
remaining adj. 1 left (over), extant, outstanding: I did as much as I could in the time remaining. 2 leftover, surviving, residual; unused, uneaten, unconsumed: The remaining books will be sold at auction.
remorse n. regret, repentance, ruefulness, sorrow, woe, anxiety, guilty or bad conscience, pangs of conscience, humiliation, embarrassment, guilt, self-reproach, mortification, shame, contrition, contriteness, penitence, compunction, bitterness: It is impossible to describe the remorse he felt at having run over the little girl's puppy.
renovate v. redecorate, modernize, do over, refurbish, refurnish, refit, remodel; recondition, rehabilitate, restore, repair, revamp, overhaul, patch up, Colloq do up, US fix up: We are having the entire house renovated by an interior decorator. It was quite costly to have those paintings renovated.
repertory n. repertoire, store, reservoir, collection, hoard, cache, repository, stock, supply, inventory, stockpile: Cosgrove felt compelled to run through his entire repertory of jokes at dinner.
repression n. 1 restraint, suppression, subjugation: Increasing repression of their liberties finally led the people to revolt. 2 check, squelching, control, inhibition, hampering, hindering, hindrance, stifling, deterring, frustration, frustrating: The repression of the revolt was unsuccessful.
request v. 1 ask for, seek, plead for, apply for, put in for, requisition, call for, demand, insist on, solicit, beg, entreat, beseech, importune: They request my cooperation. I requested to be excused. He requested her to open the door for him. --n. 2 plea, petition, application, requisition, call, demand, solicitation, entreaty: We receive many requests for information.
residence n. 1 abode, home, domicile, dwelling, dwelling-place, place, house, habitation, (living) quarters: A crowd was waiting to greet them outside their residence. 2 residency, stay, sojourn, visit, tenancy: During his residence in Cape Province, he became bilingual in Xhosa. 3 mansion, villa, manor (house), stately home, estate, chteau, castle, palace, Brit hall: The ambassadorial residence was a very imposing structure.
resource n. 1 Often, resources. initiative, ingenuity, talent, inventiveness, imagination, imaginativeness, cleverness, quick-wittedness, capability, resourcefulness, aptitude, qualifications, strength, quality, forte, Colloq Brit gumption, Slang guts: Has he the inner resources for the job that lies ahead? 2 Often, resources. capital, assets, money, possessions, wealth, property, cash, funds: She has sufficient resources to retire at fifty if she wants to.
restitution n. 1 amends, compensation, redress, recompense, remuneration, reparation, requital, indemnification, indemnity: It was agreed that victims of the raids were entitled to restitution for what had been taken from them. 2 restoration, return, re-establishment, reinstatement, recovery: A commission is to investigate the restitution of plundered property.
retard v. 1 slow (down or up), hold up or back, set back, hinder, impede, delay, keep back, stall, thwart, balk, block, restrict, hold in check, frustrate, interfere with: Growth of the economy was severely retarded by the war. --n. 2 Offensive and derogatory idiot, moron, fool, imbecile, dunce, Slang chiefly US and Canadian jerk: Why she invites that retard to her parties I can't imagine.
revelation n. news, information, proclamation, publication, bulletin, communiqu, announcement, pronouncement, declaration, statement, leak; admission, confession; discovery, unveiling, uncovering, exposure, disclosure, expos: We were shocked at the revelation that they had been married all these years. Scientists' revelations about the depletion of the ozone layer are causing widespread concern.
revolt n. 1 rebellion, revolution, uprising, mutiny, insurrection, coup d'tat, putsch, take-over: The council ordered the secret police to suppress the revolt. --v. 2 rebel, rise up, mutiny; protest, dissent: After years of oppression, the people revolted and deposed their leaders. 3 repel, offend, disgust, shock, horrify, repulse, nauseate, sicken: I was revolted by the poverty and sickness I saw in that country.
rich adj. 1 wealthy, affluent, prosperous, well-to-do, well off, well provided for, opulent, moneyed, in clover, on velvet, Colloq flush, loaded, on Easy Street, rolling in it or money or wealth, in the chips or the dough or the money, well-heeled, US well-fixed: A year ago Montmorency was a rich man, but that was before Blue Thursday on the Stock Exchange. 2 Sometimes, rich in. abundant (in), overflowing (with), fertile (in), fecund (in), productive (of), copious (in), abounding in, well supplied (with), well stocked (with), rife (with), replete (with), profuse (in or with): The rich prairie land was soon yielding abundant harvests. The surrounding mountains were rich in minerals of all kinds. 3 valuable, precious, invaluable, priceless: For centuries the islanders have enjoyed the rich bounty of the seas. The thieves who broke into the vaults got a rich haul. 4 costly, expensive, dear, valuable, invaluable, precious, priceless, lavish, sumptuous, lush, luxurious, palatial, elaborate, splendid, exquisite, superb, elegant: The caravans returned laden with rich treasures of the Orient silks, jewels, spices, rare woods, and other luxuries. 5 intense, dark, deep, warm, vibrant, strong, lustrous: At the rajah's court the rich colours of the carpets and hangings dazzle the eye. 6 fat, fattening, heavy, creamy, succulent, savoury, mouth-watering, luscious, sapid, delicious: When Vicky complained that her sweet was too rich, Arthur ate hers, too. 7 mellow, mellifluous, resonant, sonorous, full: Edgar's rich basso filled the cavernous amphitheatre. 8 aromatic, ambrosial, savoury, fragrant, redolent, pungent, strong: The house was filled with the rich odour of freshly made coffee. 9 productive, plentiful, abundant, ample, bountiful, prolific, fruitful, fertile, fecund, copious, profitable, potent: The letters proved a rich source of intimate details about their private life. 10 laughable, funny, hilarious, comic(al), humorous, amusing, Colloq side-splitting: He had many rich anecdotes to relate about the practical jokes they used to play on one another. 11 ridiculous, preposterous, outlandish, ludicrous, absurd, nonsensical: One particularly rich episode involved a chimpanzee.
right adj. 1 just, moral, good, proper, correct, legal, lawful, licit, honest, upright, righteous, virtuous, ethical, fair, true, honourable, right-minded, principled, open, above-board: There is no doubt in my mind that Simon can be relied on to do the right thing. 2 correct, fitting, suitable, proper, accurate, exact, precise, perfect; factual, truthful, veracious, valid, sound, Colloq Brit bang on, spot on: Have you bought the right kind of nail to go into plaster? Jennie had nine right answers out of ten. How many of yours are right? 3 propitious, convenient, strategic, advantageous, beneficial, favourable, auspicious, preferred, preferable, promising: It is critical for the mixture to reach the boiling point at exactly the right time. 4 sound, sane, normal, rational, lucid, healthy: Is she right in the head, letting him drive in his condition? 5 right-hand, dextral, dexter, Nautical starboard: In the United Kingdom, drivers sit on the right side. 6 rightist, right-wing, conservative, reactionary, Tory: The right wing of the liberal party is not so very different from the left wing of the conservatives. 7 face, upper, principal, front: Have you laid the tablecloth right side up? 8 utter, complete, perfect, unmitigated, unalloyed, out-and-out, thorough, thoroughgoing, 24-carat or esp. US 24-karat, dyed in the wool, pure, absolute, real, Brit proper: I've been a right idiot not to realize that he loved only her. --n. 9 privilege, prerogative, licence, power, claim, title, freedom, liberty: We must allow nothing to interfere with our democratic rights, such as our right to vote. 10 justice, reason, fact, truth, fairness, equity, good, goodness, integrity, virtue, virtuousness, honesty, honourableness, morality, propriety, rectitude, right-mindedness, high-mindedness, nobility, uprightness: He believes that he has right on his side. 11 right side or hand or fist, Nautical starboard: She stood on his right. She gave him a quick right to the jaw. 12 by rights. properly, fairly, justly, to be just, to be fair, in fairness, honestly, in all honesty, to be honest: By rights, because I paid for it, the house is mine. --adv. 13 directly, straight, straightaway, right away or off, in a beeline, as the crow flies, forthwith; unhesitatingly, immediately, promptly, at once, instantly, without hesitating or hesitation, without delay, quickly, swiftly, speedily, Colloq pronto, straight off: The minute he walked into the room, he went right to the wall-safe. Please come over right now. 14 exactly, precisely, unerringly, accurately; just: She hung the paintings right where they belonged. 15 just, only: I stopped right now - when you walked in. 16 well, satisfactorily, advantageously, profitably, favourably, opportunely: I hope that everything turns out right for you. 17 correctly, accurately, properly, precisely, well, sensibly, fittingly, suitably, aptly: If you can't do it right, why bother doing it at all! --v. 18 straighten (up or out), set upright or aright: I righted all the chairs the children had knocked over. 19 put or set or make right, put or set to rights, correct, straighten out, redress, amend, make up for, rectify, sort out, repair, fix: She has always felt that her mission in life was to right wrongs. 20 avenge, retaliate for, vindicate, repay, revenge, settle, Colloq get even for: Langdon swore that he would right the injury done to his father's name.
rip-off n. 1 stealing, purloining, robbing, pilfering, taking, filching, pilferage, theft, robbery, larceny; shoplifting, Colloq pinching, Brit nicking, Slang lifting, swiping, US boosting: The rip-off of books from the library is a disgrace. 2 swindle, confidence trick, swindling, cheating, cheat, fraud, deception, defrauding, defalcation; embezzlement, Colloq con (job or trick): A husband-and-wife team are being sought for executing a rip-off of thousands from the Outland Bank using a forged letter of credit. 3 overcharging, exploitation, Colloq highway or chiefly Brit daylight robbery: It's a rip-off to charge two pounds for something that costs only three pence to make.
robber n. thief, pickpocket, shoplifter, burglar, bandit, housebreaker, sneak-thief, cat burglar, safe-breaker, highwayman, gentleman of the road, brigand, pirate, freebooter, buccaneer, privateer, corsair, Colloq mugger, hold-up man, Slang cracksman, rip-off artist, safe-cracker, safe-blower, Chiefly US stick-up man, US second-story or second-storey man: The police were making every effort to catch the robbers.
room n. 1 space, area, scope, extent, allowance, latitude, elbow-room, range, leeway, margin: There is room for one more inside. 2 chamber, apartment, compartment, office, cell, cubicle: For years Pablo occupied a small room on the top floor. 3 rooms. quarters, lodgings, accommodation, flat, dwelling: We had rooms in an old house downtown. --v. 4 live, lodge, dwell, abide, reside, stay: Did you really room with the daughter of a prime minister?
rough adj. 1 uneven, irregular, coarse, jagged, rugged, bumpy, lumpy, broken: The next mile or so we slogged over some very rough terrain. 2 agitated, turbulent, choppy, stormy, storm-tossed, tempestuous, roiled: We negotiated a very rough patch of water before sailing into the calm, sheltered bay. 3 brusque, bluff, curt, short, abrupt, unpleasant, churlish, discourteous, impolite, rough-spoken, ungracious, surly, disrespectful, rude, uncouth, loutish, unrefined, uncivil, uncivilized, uncultured, vulgar, unladylike, ungentlemanly, coarse, ill-mannered, ill-bred, inconsiderate: Ian can be a bit rough, I know, but underneath he is a true and loyal friend. 4 tough, rough-and-tumble, roughneck, rowdy: There are some very rough characters frequenting that pub. 5 harsh, violent, unfeeling, unjust, severe, cruel, tough, hard, brutal, extreme; ungentle: They were subjected to very rough treatment when being questioned by the police. 6 dirty, obscene, smutty, pornographic, vulgar, crude, raw, rude: After midnight they watch the rough shows beamed by satellite from Italy. 7 hard, tough, Spartan, difficult, arduous, laborious, rugged, unpleasant: It was pretty rough going with almost no money and all those expenses. 8 harsh, grating, cacophonous, discordant, jarring, strident, raucous, rasping, unmusical, inharmonious, gruff, husky: In acknowledgement he made a rough, growling noise. 9 unfinished, incomplete, uncompleted, imperfect, rudimentary, crude, rude, formless, unformed, raw, rough-and-ready, rough-hewn, roughcast, undeveloped, unshaped, unworked, unwrought, unprocessed, unrefined; uncut, unpolished; shapeless, unshaped, undressed: I only saw the sculpture in its rough state and cannot say how it looked when finished. The stones are rough, as they were when taken from the ground. 10 general, approximate, inexact, cursory, quick, hasty, sketchy, vague, hazy; foggy, Colloq ballpark: Can't you give me even a rough idea of how much you want for the house? 11 unfair, unjust, bad, tough; unlucky, unfortunate: We went through a spell of rough luck last year. This is a rough time for everyone. 12 See rotten, 5, above. --n. 13 rowdy, tough, hooligan, ruffian, thug, brawler, yahoo, Slang roughneck, Australian larrikin, US mug: Phil will get into trouble if he continues to associate with those roughs at the Lantern. 14 sketch, (rough) draft, mock-up, outline: Let me see roughs of the presentation before the meeting with the client. --v. 15 rough out or in. sketch, draft, mock-up, outline, mark out, trace, block out: Our escape plan was roughed out by Captain Gallagher. 16 rough up. beat (up), thrash, attack, batter, assault, pummel or pommel, lay on, knock about, belabour, lambaste, Colloq wallop: Some of the boys roughed him up a bit when they learned that he was an informer. --adv. 17 violently, savagely, brutally, brutishly: You'd best not mention Cassie or Henry might cut up rough.
royal adj. 1 queenly, kingly, queenlike, kinglike, regal, imperial, sovereign, princely, majestic: The Royal Family usually spend their summer holidays at Balmoral. The establishment proudly boasts royal patronage. 2 grand, splendid, stately, impressive, august, imposing, superior, superb, magnificent, majestic: She arrived at the ball in a royal coach drawn by six white horses. --n. 3 king, queen, prince, princess, duke, earl, duchess, viscount, viscountess, baron, baroness, noble, nobleman, noblewoman, peer: Her greatest ambition is to meet a royal in the flesh. 4 royals. royalty, nobility, nobles, peerage: He writes the daily column reporting on the activities of the royals.
run v. 1 sprint, race, scamper, scurry, scud, dart, bolt, dash, flit, tear (along), scoot, scuttle, zip, whiz or whizz, gallop, jog, trot, lope; rush, hurry (up), hasten, scramble, hustle, step lively, hop (to) it, step on it, put on some speed, Archaic hie, Colloq get a move on, hoof it, leg it, hotfoot (it), stir one's stumps, Brit hare, US step on the gas, hump (it), Slang get cracking, US get the lead out (of one's pants or taboo ass), Chiefly US get a wiggle on: If you run, you might catch her before she gets on the train. 2 run away or off, flee, escape, take flight, take to one's heels, bolt, decamp, make off, clear out, show a clean pair of heels, abscond, cut and run, (beat a (hasty)) retreat, retire, make a getaway, (make a) run for it, Colloq beat it, scram, skedaddle, take off, skip (out), take French leave, fly the coop, Slang head for the hills, Brit scarper, do a bunk, US and Canadian take a (run-out) powder, lam out of (somewhere), take it or go on the lam, US vamoose: The minute the enemy appeared, the entire troop ran. Cavendish ran, hoping the police wouldn't catch him. 3 go, cover, pass over, sprint, race: He ran the mile in just under four minutes. 4 wander, rove, roam, meander, drift: Some farmers allow their animals to run free, rather than penning them up. 5 Often, run for. compete (for), be a candidate (for), vie, struggle, contend, fight (for), stand (for): As she has already said she would not stand again, I doubt that she will run for re-election in the council elections. 6 pass, flow, pour, stream, flood, gush, spill, dribble, spurt, issue, move, trickle, seep, discharge, cascade, spout: You can see where the rainwater has run down this crack in the roof and into the room below. 7 flow, diffuse: The colour ran when he washed his red underwear with some white shirts in very hot water. 8 melt, liquefy, dissolve, fuse: It was so hot that the icing on top of the cake began to melt and run down the sides. 9 keep, maintain, support, sustain, manage: It is very expensive to run a large house. 10 operate, manage, direct, supervise, oversee, conduct, superintend, control, handle, manipulate, head, carry on, lead, regulate, take care of, look after, administer, be in charge of, coordinate: She must be a terrifically high achiever to run a huge international conglomerate like that! 11 operate, perform, function, work, tick, go: Even after all that abuse, the watch kept running and kept good time. 12 extend, stretch, reach; amount, add up, total up, come (up): The balance of payments deficit is running to twice last year's figure. His bill at the restaurant last night ran to more than 200. 13 convey, transport, give (someone) a lift, drive, take, bring: Tom said he would run me home in his new car. 14 bootleg, smuggle, deal or traffic in, Chiefly US and Canadian rustle: During Prohibition, his father ran whisky from Canada to the US. 15 be in effect or force, be effective, have force or effect: This lease has another year to run. 16 incur, invite, encourage, attract, be subjected to: Aren't you running a risk asking Sheila to handle your money? 17 propel, drive; steer, guide, navigate: If you are inept enough to run a boat aground, at least have the sense to do it at low tide. 18 unravel, come undone, Chiefly Brit ladder: My stocking ran just before I had to leave for the dance! 19 Sometimes, run off. print, offset, lithograph, reproduce, publish, display; imprint, position, place, locate, lay out: They are going to run his story in the next issue of The Londoner! We'll run the photographs of the fire alongside the article on page one. 20 run across. meet (up with), run into, come across, find, stumble on or upon, hit or chance or happen upon, Colloq bump into: Guess whom I ran across at Harrods yesterday. 21 run after. chase, pursue, go after, court, woo, Colloq set one's cap for: The City is filled with young men and women running after big money. Mick is running after this girl half his age, and he hasn't a clue that she's leading him on. 22 run along. go away, leave, Slang get lost: Sue wanted to get rid of Wayne and told him to run along. 23 run around. philander, be unfaithful, gallivant, Colloq sleep around, play the field: How does she cope with his constant running around? 24 run around with. associate with, spend time with, dally with, consort with: Cynthia is running around with a bad crowd these days. 25 run away. See 2, above. 26 run down. a trace, track, hunt, stalk, follow, pursue, dog, shadow; find, locate, track down, discover: We ran down the suspect in an abandoned barn in Little Fakenham. b criticize, decry, defame, vilify, disparage, deprecate, depreciate, denigrate, Colloq knock, pan: If you keep running him down like that he'll develop an inferiority complex before he's seven. c weaken, tire, expire, play (itself) out, burn out, run out, fail, Colloq peter out: Once the batteries have run down, we will no longer be able to transmit a distress-signal. d strike, hit, smash or crash or slam into, run over, knock over or down, collide with: On the way home, he almost ran down a boy on a bicycle. 27 run in. arrest, take into custody, jail, apprehend, take or bring in, Colloq pinch, nab, pull in, bust, collar, Brit nick: This is the third time this week that Minette has been run in for soliciting. 28 run into. See 20, above. 29 run off. a See 2, above. b duplicate, print, copy, turn out, produce, make, manufacture, generate, Colloq do, churn out: How quickly can you run off 1000 copies of this brochure? 30 run out. a be exhausted, expire, terminate, (come or draw to a) close, end, cease: The time for renewing your subscription has run out. b finish, go, be exhausted, be used up, Colloq peter out: The food had run out and we had no water when we were rescued. 31 run out of. use up, consume, eat up, exhaust, be out of: We've run out of milk - can you nip down to the shop and get some? 32 run out on. desert, abandon, leave high and dry, forsake, leave in the lurch, leave holding the baby: Despite all his promises, Edgar ran out on her when she became pregnant. 33 run over. a See 26 (d), above. b scan, run through, go over, look over, flip or leaf or thumb through, look at, skim (through), browse through, dip into, review: I promised Casey I would run over his article if I had the time. c overflow, spill (over), brim over, slosh over, pour over; extend, reach, spread over, stretch over; exceed, go beyond, overreach, overshoot, surpass, transcend: She accidentally let the bath run over, ruining the ceiling below. This article will run over onto the next page. McClelland always runs over the time allotted to his part of the proceedings. d rehearse, run through, repeat, practise, review, go over, study, learn, memorize: You'd best run over your speech again before the banquet. 34 run through. a pierce, stab, transfix, stick, spit: In the last scene, the hero runs the villain through with his sword before succumbing to his own wounds. b squander, consume, use up, waste, fritter away, exhaust, deplete, spend, dissipate, throw away, Slang blow: It didn't take Hugh more than a year to run through his inheritance. c See 33 (b), above. --n. 35 sprint, dash, race, jog, trot: They go for a two-mile run every morning before breakfast. 36 trip, journey, visit, drive, expedition, trek, outing, excursion, jaunt, junket, sojourn, Colloq spin, joyride: He has to make a run over to Paris for the weekend, supposedly on business. 37 route, routine, circuit, passage, trip, cycle, round; beat: I was on the Murmansk run during the war. 38 period, spate, interval, time, spell, stretch, course; engagement, booking, Colloq patch: Roger has had a run of bad luck and could use some help. The show had a long run on Broadway. 39 access, freedom, liberty: The children had the run of the house for a week while their parents were away. 40 return, satisfaction, reward, recompense, compensation, requital, expiation, atonement, repayment, remuneration: Although the odds are never in your favour, you get a good run for your money at Diamond Lil's Gambling Emporium. 41 series, sequence, stream, spate, string, succession, progression: Will attributed his poor showing at the tournament to a bad run of cards. 42 stream, brook, runnel, creek, rill, rivulet, Brit beck, Scots burn, US branch, kill: There is a small run at the bottom of the hill. 43 demand, call, request: Bouillon cubes seem to have enjoyed quite a run lately. 44 type, category, class, kind, sort: Mark seems to be a bit more refined than the usual run of guest at Lisa's parties. 45 trail, track, piste, path, slope; way, runway: She skied down the north run in record time. 46 enclosure, yard, pen, compound, runway; paddock; pound: There is a good-sized run at the kennel where we board the dogs when we go on holiday. 47 Music roulade, cadenza, arpeggio, riff: The soprano treated us to a marvellous run in which each note was distinct and pure. 48 in the long run. eventually, finally, after all, ultimately, in (due) time, in due course, in fine, in the end, at the end of the day, in the final analysis, all things considered, when all is said and done: Regardless of early troubles, things always seem to turn out all right in the long run in his plays. 49 on the run. a hastily, in haste, hurriedly, while under way, in a hurry, at speed, in a rush: It isn't supposed to be good for you to eat breakfast on the run every day. b on the loose, fleeing, escaping, running, in flight, running (away), Slang US on the lam: He was on the run from the police and desperate to find Duncan. c running, retreating, on the move or the go: They kept the enemy on the run for a week. 50 the runs. diarrhoea, dysentery, upset stomach, Jocular tummy rot, Delhi belly, Aztec hop, turista or tourista, Mexican foxtrot or two-step or toothache, Montezuma's revenge, curse of Montezuma, Rangoon runs, Tokyo trots, Lambeth run(s): I came down with the runs when we got to Ankara.
ruthless adj. pitiless, unpitying, cruel, unsympathetic, merciless, unmerciful, harsh, fierce, remorseless, uncompassionate, vicious, savage, ferocious, hard-hearted, callous, unfeeling, tough, severe, heartless, inhuman, brutal, brutish, unrelenting, relentless, Chiefly US and Canadian mean: The jail houses some of the country's most ruthless criminals. In all of history there was no more ruthless a tyrant. sabotage n. 1 destruction, damage, wrecking, impairment: Enemy infiltrators were responsible for the sabotage of our radar. 2 subversion, treachery, treason: When the radar was found damaged, sabotage was suspected. --v. 3 undermine, subvert, disrupt, spoil, ruin, cripple; damage, incapacitate, disable, destroy, wreck, Colloq Brit throw a spanner in(to) the works, US throw a monkey wrench into the machinery, Slang Brit queer (someone's pitch): Only someone who had something to lose would have sabotaged our plan for reorganization. The engine had been sabotaged by pouring sand into the fuel tank.
sag v. 1 droop, sink, slump, bend, dip; swag, bag: The board sagged precariously under his weight. Without a breath stirring, the banners sagged in the humid air. 2 drop, decrease, decline, go or come down, fall, slide, slip, weaken, slump, descend, diminish, lessen, droop, subside, flag, falter, wilt: The value of the dollar sagged in world markets today. --n. 3 sagging, drop, droop, sinking, sinkage, subsidence, dip; reduction, decrease, decline, fall, slide, weakening, slump, lessening, flagging, faltering: If you stand over here you can see a definite sag in the roof. The sag in profits was attributed to a poor response to the new model.
sanatorium n. rest-home, convalescent home, nursing home, clinic, health farm, US also sanitarium: After spending a month recuperating in a Swiss sanatorium, Gladys was as good as new.
sarcastic adj. scornful, contumelious, derisive, derisory, ridiculing, bitter, biting, cutting, trenchant, incisive, acrimonious, acerbic, acid, acidic, acidulous, harsh, acrid, aspersive, venomous, poisonous, virulent, spiteful, malicious, malefic, malevolent, satiric(al), ironic(al), cynical, disdainful, mocking, contemptuous, critical, censorious, captious, carping, cavilling, sardonic, scathing, caustic, nasty: I don't think he knows how hurtful his sarcastic remarks can be.
savage adj. 1 wild, untamed, undomesticated, feral, unbroken: These savage beasts had never seen a man before. 2 vicious, ferocious, fierce, beastly, bestial, brutish, bloodthirsty, brutal, cruel, ruthless, pitiless, merciless, harsh, bloody, unmerciful, fell, barbarous, barbaric, murderous, demonic, demoniac, sadistic: The boy was subjected to a savage attack by the defendant's dog. The king's guards were selected for their savage nature. 3 wild, uncivilized, uncultivated, primitive, inhuman, bestial, barbaric, barbarous, untamed, rude: The savage behaviour of some New Guinea tribes included cannibalism. --n. 4 wild man or woman, brute, barbarian; Caliban: When the explorers landed on the island, they were welcomed by the savages who lived there.
scandal n. 1 shame, disgrace, embarrassment, sin, outrage: It is a scandal how much of the money raised for charity goes into the pockets of the fund-raisers. 2 discredit, damage, calumny, ignominy, obloquy, dishonour, degradation, disrepute, infamy: The scandal resulting from their being found together could never be lived down. The breath of scandal never touched her. 3 slander, libel, aspersion, innuendo, insinuation, abuse, dirt, defilement, defamation, slur, smear, taint, blemish, spot, stigma, smirch, black mark or spot, blot (on the escutcheon), (badge of) infamy, skeleton in the cupboard, Brit blot on one's copybook: His cowardice brought scandal to the name that could never be lived down.
scenario n. 1 (master or ground or floor) plan, (grand) scheme, plot, schema, design, outline, layout, framework, structure; sequence of events, routine: According to this scenario, the bank will provide the financing and we shall organize the take-over. 2 (plot) summary, prcis, rsum, synopsis; (working or shooting) script, screenplay: The scenario for the film was a joint venture between the director and the author of the book on which it was based.
school n. 1 (educational) institution, kindergarten, nursery school, primary or grammar or secondary or high school, institute, college, university, seminary; Alma Mater; boarding-school, day-school; public school, private school, Brit State school; lyce; Lyceum, Brit first or middle school, US junior high school: His mother was very upset when he hinted that he might quit school. 2 set, coterie, circle, clique, group, denomination, faction, sect, followers, devotees, adherents, votaries, disciples; style, kind, form, manner, fashion: Burne-Jones belonged to the Pre-Raphaelite School of painters. 3 philosophy, principles, creed, set of beliefs, way of life, persuasion, credo, dogma, teaching, view, opinion, faction, approach: Regarding the creation of the universe, do you support the big-bang school or the steady-state school? --v. 4 teach, educate, drill, inculcate, instil, indoctrinate, instruct, tutor, train, discipline, coach, prepare, prime, equip, ready; mould, shape, form; school in, imbue with, infuse with: Young ladies were schooled in all the social graces.
scornful adj. contumelious, contemptuous, disdainful, deprecative, disparaging, derisory, derisive, snide, supercilious, mocking, sneering, scoffing, haughty, overweening, high-handed, superior, Colloq snooty, Slang snotty: The people were scornful of his attempt to reassure them, and continued to demand action.
screen n. 1 partition, (room) divider, paravent, wall: In their one-room flat a bookcase serves as a screen to separate the living area from the sleeping area. 2 shelter, protection, shield, cover: A row of poplars acts as a screen against the wind. 3 curtain, blind, shroud, cloak, cover; concealment, camouflage: The gauze fabric was too transparent to act as a screen. 4 sieve, mesh, strainer, filter, colander, riddle: The sand has to be shovelled through a screen to get rid of the stones. 5 motion pictures, movies, silver screen; television, small screen, home screen, Colloq box, telly, US boob tube: She is a star of both the big and small screens. --v. 6 partition (off), separate, divide, wall off: Why not use a beaded curtain to screen the kitchen area from the dining-room? 7 shelter, protect, shield, cover, guard, conceal, camouflage, mask, veil, hide: A decorative pierced wall screens the ladies of the harem from the prying eyes of visitors. 8 sift, separate (out), sort (out), filter, select, cull, process, interview, evaluate, grade, gauge, qualify, examine, scan, Chiefly Brit vet: The agency screens all candidates before sending them to see a client.
scurvy adj. low, miserable, contemptible, vile, base, despicable, rotten, sorry, bad, ignoble, dishonourable, mean, worthless, shabby: Robbing poor old ladies is a pretty scurvy activity.
secluded adj. 1 private, separate, isolated, lonely, cloistered, sequestered, detached, solitary, retired, eremitic, monastic: He lives a very secluded life on an island in the Outer Hebrides. 2 off the beaten track, out-of-the-way, remote, far-away, far-off, separate, segregated, private: He chose a secluded island in the Outer Hebrides for his vacation.
secular adj. worldly, terrestrial, mundane, temporal, material, lay, laic or laical, non-clerical, non-ecclesiastic(al), non-spiritual, non-religious, civil, state: Once he had taken his vows, he put aside secular matters.
seeing conjunction. in view of (the fact that), whereas, in (the) light of, inasmuch as, since, considering: Seeing that you are here, you might as well tell her yourself.
selection n. 1 choice, pick, preference, option: Please make your selection from the merchandise in this display. 2 assortment, variety, collection, range, batch, number, set, series, group: Tonight I shall play for you a selection of jazz recordings made at the Savoy. 3 selecting, choosing, picking, singling out, electing, settling on, voting for, opting for, choice, pick, election: Selection has been delayed till tomorrow. 4 extract, quotation, excerpt, abstract, passage, piece, quote: I shall read you a selection from Blake's Songs of Innocence and Experience .
self-made adj. independent, self-reliant, entrepreneurial, self-sufficient: She is a self-made woman and has accomplished it all without anyone else's help.
senior citizen n. elderly person, retired person, pensioner, Brit OAP (='old-age pensioner'), grey panther, Chiefly US retiree, golden-ager: Special tax provisions have been made for senior citizens.
sentinel n. sentry, guard, watchman, watch, picket, lookout, patrol: The sentinels measured out the ramparts of the fortress with their regular paces.
serrated adj. sawlike, saw-shaped, sawtoothed, toothed, notched, zigzag, jagged, serrate, serriform, serratiform, serrulate(d), crenellated, crenulate, crenate, denticulate: A knife with a serrated edge would cut the meat more easily.
set-up n. 1 arrangement, system, organization, layout, regime, structure, make-up, composition, framework, frame, construction; conditions, circumstances: This set-up of interlocking directorships makes it difficult to see who answers to whom and who owns what. What, exactly, is the set-up between you and Eustace? 2 prearrangement, trap, Slang put-up job: As soon as I saw the police car, I knew we had walked into a set-up.
shady adj. 1 See shadowy, 1, above. 2 indistinct, indefinite, questionable, doubtful, uncertain, unreliable, suspicious, suspect, dubious, shifty, disreputable; devious, tricky, slippery, underhand(ed), unethical, unscrupulous, dishonourable, dishonest, Colloq fishy, crooked, bent, not (strictly) kosher: The minister's shady past will be revealed in the next issue of Tribune . She got involved with some shady character who had just come out of prison.
shapely adj. curvaceous, comely, well-proportioned, graceful, neat, well turned out, good-looking, pleasing; voluptuous, Colloq sexy: That slinky black dress certainly sets off her shapely figure to advantage.
shepherd v. lead, convoy, escort, conduct, guide, usher, take, pursue: I want you, personally, to shepherd Miss Jones through the plant. As this project requires special care, I shall shepherd it through personally.
shocking adj. 1 surprising, astounding, astonishing, amazing, striking, stupefying, numbing, sudden, unexpected, electrifying, startling, Colloq mind-boggling, mind-blowing: It was shocking to see the way the neighbourhood had deteriorated. 2 disgusting, revolting, nauseating, nauseous, sickening, repulsive, abominable, hideous, horrible, horrifying, horrific, horrid, foul, loathsome, abhorrent, ghastly, hideous, unspeakable, dreadful, distressing, outrageous, appalling, monstrous, scandalous: The conditions in the concentration camps were shocking.
shoulder n. 1 side, edge, verge, margin; breakdown lane: If you have a flat tyre, drive onto the hard shoulder and phone for help. 2 give (someone) the cold shoulder. rebuff, snub, ostracize, send (someone) to Coventry, cold-shoulder, put (someone) down, reject, exclude, freeze (someone) out, shun, avoid, Colloq cut (dead): After his court case, they gave Nicholas the cold shoulder at his club. 3 put (one's or the) shoulder to the wheel. make every effort, make an effort, strive, work hard, pitch in, apply oneself, roll up one's sleeves, set or get to work, Colloq knuckle down, buckle down: If we put our shoulders to the wheel, we ought to be able to get our candidate elected. 4 rub shoulders (with). associate (with), hobnob (with), socialize (with), consort (with), mix (with), fraternize (with), keep company (with): Once in a while, she condescends to come down and rub shoulders with the common people. 5 shoulder to shoulder. side by side, united, as one, cooperatively, jointly, arm in arm, hand in hand, in partnership: If we fight shoulder to shoulder, we can defeat this menace and regain our freedom. 6 straight from the shoulder. directly, straightforwardly, candidly, frankly, honestly, openly, unabashedly, unashamedly, unambiguously, unequivocally, plainly, bluntly, man to man, (with) no holds barred, outright, Colloq without beating about the bush, without pulling (any) punches: I want to tell you, straight from the shoulder, Willie, you're the best pal in the world. --v. 7 push, shove, jostle, hustle, thrust aside, elbow, force: She shouldered everyone aside roughly to fight her way to the bargain counter. 8 support, carry, bear, take upon oneself, take on, accept, assume: Are you ready to shoulder the responsibilities of caring for a family?
shrubbery n. shrubs, planting(s), hedge(s), hedging, hedgerow, thicket, underbrush, brake, bracken, undergrowth, coppice or copse: The fox lay low in the shrubbery till the dogs flushed him out.
siege n. 1 blockade, encirclement, beleaguerment, besiegement: The siege of Troy lasted ten years. --v. 2 lay siege to, besiege, blockade, beleaguer, cordon off, encircle, box or pen or shut in, bottle up: They sieged the city and the inhabitants surrendered when they ran out of food and water.
silver n. 1 silverware, sterling, (silver) plate; cutlery, US flatware; hollowware: Guests are coming so I'll have to polish the silver. 2 white, greyish, whitish-grey, greyish-white, grey: When your hair has turned to silver, I will love you just the same. --adj. 3 silvery, shiny, shining, polished, burnished, lustrous, pearly, nacreous, bright, gleaming, Literary or heraldry argent; white: The moon's silver crescent hung low in the sky. Her hair is more silver than grey. 4 silvery, silver-toned, silver-tongued, sweet, pretty, euphonious, melodious, mellifluous, mellifluent, dulcet, musical: The silver tones of the muezzin echoed in the streets, calling the faithful to prayer.
singe v. char, blacken, sear, scorch, burn: Unfortunately, I singed the tail of my shirt while ironing it.
situate v. place in a position or situation or location, place, position, locate, set, spot, put, install or instal: Harwood is very well situated to learn what the high command is planning. The greenhouse should be situated on the south side of the house.
slack adj. 1 remiss, careless, indolent, negligent, lax, lazy, idle, neglectful, delinquent, inattentive, otiose, dilatory, cunctatory, laggard, easygoing, slothful, sluggish, lethargic, shiftless, do-nothing, fainant, Colloq asleep at the switch or the wheel, asleep on the job: Production has fallen off because the workers are getting slack. 2 loose, flabby, flaccid, soft, limp, baggy, drooping, droopy, bagging, sagging, floppy: The flag hung down, slack in the still air. --v. 3 Often, slack or slacken off or up. a let go, let run, let loose, release, slacken, loose, loosen, relax, ease (out or off), let up (on): Slack off the stern line a bit. b slow (down or up), delay, reduce speed, tire, decline, decrease, diminish, moderate, abate, weaken: Barnes could not keep up his terrific pace and is beginning to slack off. Business has slackened off since Christmas. 4 neglect, shirk, Colloq Brit skive (off), US goof off, Chiefly military gold-brick, Taboo slang US fuck the dog: Don't let the foreman find you slacking. --n. 5 lull, pause, inactivity, cut-back, lessening, reduction, abatement, drop-off, downturn, diminution, decline, fall-off, decrease, dwindling: How do you compensate for the slack in sales of ski equipment during the summer? 6 room, looseness, slackness, play, give: There's too much slack in that mooring line.
sleek adj. 1 smooth, slick, velvety, lustrous, shiny, shining, glossy, silky, silken: The seals' sleek fur glistened in the sunlight. 2 graceful, trim, streamlined: For her birthday Edmund gave her a sleek convertible. 3 suave, unctuous, slimy, fawning, oily, specious, hypocritical, Chiefly Brit smarmy: His explanations sounded plausible enough, but we soon found out what a sleek rogue he really was.
slip v. 1 slide, skid, glide, slither: Waxing the runners helps the sleigh slip along more easily. 2 stumble, lose one's footing or balance, miss one's footing, trip; fall, tumble: Mother slipped on the ice but luckily didn't fall down. 3 Often, slip up. err, blunder, make a mistake, miscalculate, go wrong, botch (up), Slang screw up: He slipped up again by failing to give you your telephone messages. 4 let slip. reveal, divulge, blurt out, leak, let out, disclose, expose, Colloq come out with, blab: He accidentally let slip the news that you were back in town. 5 slip away or by. pass, elapse, vanish, go by: The hours just slipped away when I was with Irena. 6 slip away or off or out. escape, disappear, leave, vanish, steal, go or run away or off or out, break away, get away, give (someone) the slip; sneak away or off or out: After the speech, he slipped away before we could interview him. 7 slip in. enter, get in, sneak in; put in: A field mouse slipped in past the wire netting. I managed to slip in my suggestion before the meeting was adjourned. --n. 8 blunder, error, mistake, fault, oversight, slip of the tongue or pen, inadvertence, indiscretion, impropriety, transgression, peccadillo, faux pas, Colloq slip-up, Chiefly US blooper, Slang Brit boob, bloomer: She made so many slips in the letter that she had to retype it.
sludge n. muck, mire, ooze, mud, slime, dregs, silt, residue, precipitate, Colloq goo: The mechanic said that there was a lot of sludge in the engine.
smoulder v. burn; seethe, simmer, chafe, rage, fume, foam, boil, stew, fester, Colloq get hot under the collar, get (all) steamed up, see red, US do a slow burn, get (all) burnt up: The fire continued to smoulder, then flared up again a week later. He has been smouldering ever since his wife confessed she was going out with another man.
sniff n. 1 whiff, breath, odour, scent: I got a sniff of her perfume as she walked by. 2 hint, spirit, feeling, suggestion: There is the sniff of spring in the air. --v. 3 smell, snuffle, snuff: Why is your dog always sniffing at my shoes? 4 sniff (at). See sneer, 2, above.
sociable adj. friendly, affable, approachable, social, gregarious, outgoing, extrovert(ed) or extravert(ed), companionable, accessible, amiable, amicable, genial, congenial, convivial, warm, cordial, neighbourly, hail-fellow-well-met, Colloq chummy, cosy: The people in this area are quite sociable, and we get together often.
solicit v. 1 entreat, beseech, ask (for), implore, petition, importune, appeal for or to, call on or upon, beg, supplicate, pray, crave: He has solicited my help on more than one occasion. 2 accost, approach, entice, lure, pander to, Slang hustle: You can't go out in that neighbourhood without being solicited.
sometime adj. 1 former, erstwhile, past, recent, one-time, quondam: Crawford was a sometime student of the occult. --adv. 2 at some time or other, someday, one day, any time, on a future occasion, when or if the opportunity arises, soon, by and by, one of these days: Come up and see me sometime. 3 sooner or later, in (due) time, in the fullness of time, in the long run, one fine day, Un bel di, eventually, when all is said and done, before long, before you know it: You can be sure that the tax man will find out about it sometime.
sort n. 1 kind, variety, type, class, classification, group, category, brand, make, mark, stamp, description, mould, stripe, ilk, feather, kidney, character, nature; manner, species: A 1928 Alfa-Romeo coup is not exactly the right sort of car for a family. Lewis is a person of a different sort. What sort of person is he? 2 kind, type, manner: This sort of behaviour must stop. 3 species, genus, family, phylum, subgenus, subspecies, race, breed, strain, stock, kind, variety, type: Aberdeen Angus is a better sort of beef for steaks. 4 person, individual, lot; thing: He is not really such a bad sort. 5 of sorts. of a sort, of a mediocre or passable or admissible or not (too) bad or fair or sufficiently good or adequate or undistinguished or indifferent kind or quality or proficiency: Yes, one might say that he is a violinist of sorts. 6 out of sorts. not oneself, not up to snuff, unwell, ailing, indisposed, (slightly) ill, low, Colloq off one's feed, under the weather: He is out of sorts after last night's revelries. 7 sort of. See somewhat, above. --v. 8 assort, classify, file, order, rank, grade, class, categorize, separate, divide, combine, merge, arrange, organize, systemize, systematize, catalogue, group, sort out: Sort these names into alphabetical order. 9 describe, characterize, categorize, cast, throw, combine, mould, type: I did not enjoy being sorted together with thieves and murderers. 10 sort out. a organize, set or put straight, straighten out, resolve, tidy (up), clarify, clear up, solve; decide: Someone will have to sort out how we are to proceed. b choose, select, separate, divide: Sort out all the books that you want to keep from those to be donated to the library.
spank v. slap, smack, put or take over one's knee, thrash, paddle; chastise, punish, castigate; Colloq wallop, tan (someone's) hide, paddywhack, whack, give (someone) a (good) licking or hiding: In those days when you misbehaved you were spanked.
speaker n. orator, lecturer; keynoter; rabble-rouser, demagogue, Colloq tub-thumper, spieler: It was my function to introduce the speaker.
spectre n. 1 ghost, phantom, wraith, apparition, vision, spirit, shade, revenant, Doppelgnger, chimera, Colloq spook, bogeyman or bogyman: Each year the spectre appeared to her on Christmas Eve. 2 image, vision, (mental) picture: Again the horrible spectre of war and pestilence arose.
sphere n. 1 globe, orb, globule, spherule; drop, droplet, bubble: Flotation is provided by thousands of hollow plastic spheres. 2 society, class, level, caste, rank, domain, walk of life, station, stratum, position: They did not belong to the same social sphere. 3 area, field, province, subject, discipline, range, speciality or US specialty, forte, Colloq bailiwick, territory, department, thing, bag: Are Gregorian chants within Stanley's sphere of interest?
spiteful adj. rancorous, bitter, acrimonious, malevolent, malicious, venomous, hateful, invidious, hostile, antagonistic, unfriendly, unforgiving, retaliative or retaliatory, punitive, retributive or retributory: Cutting off Colin's allowance because he forgot your birthday was a spiteful thing to do.
sporty adj. informal, casual; stylish, chic, smart, trendy, fashionable, modish, la mode, up to date, showy, rakish, Colloq swank(y), loud, Slang classy, swell, flashy, snazzy, sharp, US and Canadian spiffy: He came to dinner wearing sporty clothes. Yes, I suppose you might call Fred a sporty dresser.
spur n. 1 goad, prod, urging, impulse, incitement, instigation, prompting, pressure, stimulus, stimulation, incentive, provocation, inducement, encouragement, motive, motivation: The company paid the workers a bonus for each piece they completed as a spur to productivity. 2 projection, prong, spike, spine, gaff, barb, quill, tine, barbel, barbule, process: The hook has a spur that prevents the fish from disengaging. 3 on the spur of the moment. impetuously, impulsively, unthinkingly, unpremeditatedly, impromptu, on the spot; rashly, thoughtlessly, recklessly, hastily, brashly, incautiously, unexpectedly, suddenly: On the spur of the moment, we decided to fly to Cap d'Antibes for the weekend. --v. 4 goad, prod, urge, egg on, impel, incite, prompt, press, push, pressure or Brit pressurize, stimulate, drive, provoke, induce, encourage, motivate, excite, animate: The sales force are spurred on by the huge bonuses the company offers.
stadium n. arena, ground, amphitheatre, hippodrome, coliseum or colosseum, circus: The new football stadium can accommodate 60,000 spectators.
stalwart adj. 1 robust, stout, strong, mighty, powerful, rugged, staunch, hardy, sturdy, vigorous, lusty, indomitable, solid, able-bodied, brawny, sinewy, muscular, fit, healthy, hale, (hale and) hearty, Colloq husky, hefty, beefy: We shall need a dozen stalwart men to carry out the raid. 2 redoubtable, intrepid, undaunted, resolute, firm, determined, unbending, steadfast, tenacious, unswerving, unwavering, unfaltering, unflinching, uncompromising, unyielding, persevering, persistent, unflagging, relentless, tireless, untiring, indefatigable: Although they lost, their lawyers put up a stalwart defence. 3 brave, courageous, daring, intrepid, valiant, heroic, manly, manful, fearless, indomitable, stout-hearted, bold, audacious, game, red-blooded, plucky, mettlesome, lion-hearted, spirited: These stalwart knights met at dawn on the battlefield. --n. 4 supporter, upholder, sustainer, partisan, loyalist, (party) faithful, trouper, hero, heroine: And most of all I want to thank those stalwarts who have supported me throughout this victorious campaign.
staple adj. 1 basic, elementary, essential, necessary, requisite, required, vital, indispensable, critical, fundamental, primary, principal, main, chief: These people cannot afford even staple commodities like flour and salt. 2 standard, usual, habitual, ordinary, customary, prevailing, normal, conventional, universal: The staple fare on television seems to consist of old and new sitcoms. --n. 3 Often, staples. necessities, essentials, basics, fundamentals: Supermarkets disperse low-cost staples such as bread, tea, and milk to force shoppers to pass luxury items. Marital and financial problems are the staples of soap operas.
status n. 1 eminence, prominence, pre-eminence, standing, stature, importance, significance, repute, reputation, rank, station: Few could approach Keith's status as a pathologist. 2 See standing, 5, above.
stellar adj. 1 astral, star, sidereal: The sidereal year is based on stellar calculations. 2 chief, starring, principal, leading, main, headlining: For years Lee has been a stellar performer on the golf circuit.
stiff adj. 1 firm, rigid, inelastic, unbending, inflexible, hard, unbendable, tough, solid, solidified, stiffened, unyielding, brittle: The table napkins were so stiff with starch that I almost cracked one. 2 severe, harsh, punitive, hurtful, punishing, abusive, torturous, distressing, afflictive, painful, overwhelming, unbearable, tormenting, merciless, excruciating, cruel, drastic, US cruel and unusual: The government here has stiff penalties for drug traffickers. 3 strong, potent, powerful, overpowering, alcoholic: After that kind of an ordeal, you could use a stiff drink, I'm sure. 4 vigorous, energetic, staunch, dogged, tenacious, resolute, resolved, determined, stubborn, obstinate, unyielding, indomitable, relentless: They met with stiff opposition in trying to capture the fort. 5 strong, steady, powerful, fresh, brisk, spanking, gusty, forceful, howling: We had to reduce sail because of a stiff westerly wind. 6 excessive, exorbitant, high, steep, expensive, dear: They are asking a pretty stiff price these days for a bottle of good vintage port. 7 cool, haughty, rigid, wooden, stuffy, aloof, tense, intense, unrelaxed, forced, pompous, stilted, mannered, ceremonious, austere, formal, chilly, cold, unfriendly, standoffish, reserved, snobbish, Colloq snooty, Slang uptight: Vince is warm and friendly, but his wife is as stiff as a poker. 8 stilted, unrelaxed, wooden, forced, artificial, laboured, pedantic, turgid, formal, prim, Colloq stuffy: I have always found her writing to be rather stiff. 9 difficult, hard, steep, uphill, laborious, arduous, tiring, fatiguing, exhausting, harrowing, toilsome, rigorous, challenging, Colloq rough, tough: It is quite a stiff climb to the top of the pyramid of Cheops. That was a stiff homework assignment. 10 solid, semi-solid, firm, hard, thick, dense, compact: If you add a bit more water the next time, the jelly won't get quite so stiff. --n. 11 corpse, body, cadaver: Barry had to go down to the morgue to identify some stiff they hauled out of the river. 12 skinflint, miser, Colloq cheapskate, Slang piker, US and Canadian tightwad: A stiff is a customer who fails to leave a tip.
stir v. 1 Often, stir up. agitate, shake (up), mix (up), scramble, amalgamate, mingle, commingle, intermingle, merge, blend, fold (in), churn (up), beat, whip (up): Stir all the ingredients together. 2 move, rise, arise, get up, bestir (oneself), be up and about, Colloq get a move on, get moving, get a wiggle on, shake a leg, look or step lively, look alive, stir one's stumps: It is about time you were up and stirring. 3 disturb, trouble, affect, upset, stimulate, activate: The play stirred the conscience of the king. Mention 'diet' to Roberta and you'll stir up a wasp's nest. 4 Often, stir up. motivate, encourage, stimulate, energize, galvanize, electrify, animate, excite, inspire, provoke, move, rouse, arouse, get, prompt, urge, incite, spur, prod, induce, persuade, convince: What will it take to stir the council to take action? The usual rabble-rousers were there, stirring up the crowd. 5 Often, stir up. awaken, rouse, (cause to) recall or call to mind, revive, resuscitate: Those photographs stir up so many old memories! --n. 6 bustle, activity, movement, stirring, action, commotion, flurry, confusion, tumult, ado, to-do, fuss, disturbance, excitement, hubbub, Colloq Brit kerfuffle: There was a stir at the door, which was flung wide to allow Kitty to sweep in. The news of her marriage caused quite a stir. 7 prison, jail or Brit also gaol, jail-house, clink, penitentiary, lock-up, Military Brit glasshouse, US brig, Slang chiefly Brit quod, US big house, pen, slammer, can, calaboose: He claims he's in stir for something he didn't do.
storehouse n. warehouse, depository or depositary, repository, storeroom, bank, store, (In Asia) godown; arsenal, magazine, armoury: The company maintains storehouses in a dozen countries to better supply their customers.
strange adj. 1 odd, peculiar, bizarre, weird, curious, uncommon, unusual, rare, singular, exceptional, eccentric, weird, funny, quaint, fantastic, out of the ordinary, extraordinary, out-of-the-way, queer, outlandish, unheard-of, grotesque, abnormal, remarkable, surprising, inexplicable, unaccountable, uncanny, Colloq offbeat, far-out, Slang kinky, Brit rum, US kooky: I had a strange dream last night. 2 unfamiliar, unknown, unaccustomed: The children were warned not to get into strange cars. She was overwhelmed by the strange culture of her husband's country.
strew v. scatter, bestrew, sprinkle, disperse, spread, toss, distribute; litter: Rubbish was strewn all over the floor.
stroke n. 1 blow, rap, tap, thump, knock, smack, whack, swipe, slam, strike, Colloq wallop: One stroke of the hammer and the nail went in. 2 action, motion, go, move, movement, feat, achievement: She won the leading role and defeated her shyness at one stroke. 3 flourish, movement, gesture; mark, dash, Colloq splash: With a stroke of the pen the man's fate was sealed. 4 beat, throb, pulse, pulsation, thump: His heart was beating at exactly 72 strokes a minute. 5 attack, seizure, fit, apoplexy, apoplectic fit, spasm, paralytic attack or fit; Technical embolism, thrombosis, cerebrovascular accident, aneurysm: Gerry has been incapacitated since he had a stroke. 6 pat, touch, caress: A few strokes of her fingers on my brow and the headache was gone. 7 achievement, accomplishment, feat, act, action, work; example; touch: Your idea of having a jazz concert to raise money is a stroke of genius. 8 bit, jot or tittle, scrap, iota, touch, stitch, hint, suggestion: You haven't done a stroke of work all morning. 9 occurrence, happening, matter: It was just a stroke of luck that I came along when I did. --v. 10 caress, pet, pat, fondle; massage, rub, soothe: His heart beat faster when she stroked his hand lightly with her fingertips.
stuffy adj. 1 close, airless, unventilated, oppressive, stifling, suffocating, stale, musty, fusty, mouldy, mildewy, muggy, fetid or foetid, frowzy or frouzy or frowsy, Brit frowsty: It was stuffy in the ancient tomb. 2 pompous, pedantic, self-important, self-centred, stodgy, old-fogyish or old-fogeyish, old-fashioned, strait-laced, staid, conventional, prim (and proper), priggish, niminy-piminy, stilted, stiff, rigid, Colloq fuddy-duddy, uptight: What a bore to be trapped for an entire evening with those stuffy old codgers!
styptic adj. astringent: The styptic effect of alum stops bleeding.
subordinate adj. 1 Often, subordinate to. minor; inferior (to), lower (than), lesser (than), secondary (to), second (to), junior (to), subsidiary (to); next to, below, beneath, under: He had to accept a subordinate position in the new company. His new job is subordinate to that of purchasing director. --n. 2 assistant, aide, junior, subaltern, staff member; underling, hireling, inferior, lackey, servant, slave, vassal; Colloq US staffer: She is a subordinate to the editor-in-chief. --v. 3 make (something) secondary: Too many subordinate community interest to personal greed.
substratum n. substrate, foundation, underlayer, basis, fundament, base, substructure, groundwork: The agreement rests on a substratum of mutual trust and respect.
succumb v. yield, give up, give way, surrender, accede, submit, capitulate: I finally succumbed and agreed to their request for help.
suit v. 1 adapt, accommodate, fit, adjust, tailor, make appropriate or suitable: It will require some reorganization to suit the office space to our needs. 2 please, satisfy, fill (someone's) needs, gratify, be acceptable or suitable or convenient to or for, befit; conform to: Choose whichever room suits you. The schedule does not suit my personal plans at all. --n. 3 jacket and trousers or skirt, outfit, uniform, ensemble, costume, habit; garb, clothing, clothes, livery: He showed up wearing a new silk suit. 4 lawsuit, action, case, proceeding, process, cause, trial; litigation: I do not want to enter into a suit over the damage to my car. 5 petition, plea, request, entreaty, prayer, solicitation, application, appeal, supplication; courtship: The king rejected all suits for his daughter's hand in marriage.
sundries n.pl. knick-knacks, trinkets, small items, notions, miscellanea, miscellany, kickshaws, Brummagem, frippery, bric--brac, odds and ends: We might find a button for your shirt in a shop that sells sundries.
superlative adj. unsurpassed, paramount, supreme, consummate, superior, best, choicest, finest, matchless, peerless, unequalled, unrivalled, singular, unique, incomparable, excellent, superb, sterling, dazzling, first-rate, exceptional, extraordinary, marvellous, spectacular, capital, Colloq tiptop, super, smashing, great, ace, terrific, fantastic, Slang crack: Max turned in a superlative performance in the tournament.
supportive adj. helpful, sustaining, supporting, encouraging, sympathetic, understanding, reassuring: Among our many friends, Cleo was the most supportive during the recent trouble.
surfeited adj. gorged, overfed, satiated, sated, stuffed, glutted, jaded: He passed the sleeping surfeited diners and stole into the library unseen.
susceptible adj. 1 Often, susceptible of or to. open (to), prone (to), subject (to), disposed (to), predisposed (to), receptive (to), affected by, responsive (to): Brass is susceptible of a high shine. Are you still susceptible to her blandishments? 2 impressionable, influenceable, vulnerable, reachable, accessible, credulous, suggestible, gullible, nave: Susceptible youngsters need protection from commercial exploitation.
swashbuckling adj. adventurous, daring, daredevil, swaggering, roisterous, bold, dashing, flamboyant: Those old swashbuckling films with Errol Flynn, Richard Green, and Douglas Fairbanks, formed a genre all their own.
swiftly adv. fast, quickly, speedily, rapidly, expeditiously; briskly, hurriedly, hastily, suddenly, abruptly, in a flash, in a trice, in the wink of an eye, before you can say 'Jack Robinson', before you can say 'knife', like a shot, in an instant, in (less than) no time, precipitately, unexpectedly, Colloq like greased lightning, US lickety-split, in a jiffy, Slang pronto, like a bat out of hell: The assembly is done much more swiftly by machine. Swiftly, I ducked into a doorway to avoid being seen.
symbol n. representation, figure, metaphor, allegory, insigne (singular; plural is insignia), token, sign, emblem, badge, image, logotype, mark, trade mark, colophon, brand, code, abbreviation, phonogram, initialism, cryptogram, acronym, monogram, password, shibboleth, watchword, code word; arms, bearing, armorial bearing, crest, escutcheon, coat of arms, banner, flag, pennant, standard, Colloq logo: This jewel is a mere symbol of my devotion and love for you.
system n. 1 organized whole, organization, set, group, combination; structure, arrangement, pattern, set-up: Some believe that the universe is a vast ordered system, others that it is chaos in which only man sees order. It took years to establish the banking system in this country. 2 scheme, method, approach, modus operandi, way, procedure, methodology, technique, plan, process, practice, routine: There is a proper system for doing the job and you should keep to it.
tactic n. 1 move, manoeuvre, ploy, caper, plan, strategy, stratagem, device, ruse, plot, scheme, design: Inviting her husband along was a tactic merely to avert suspicion. 2 tactics. manoeuvres, strategy, plans, campaign, generalship, military science, military operation(s), orchestration, engineering, masterminding: Entirely different tactics must be employed in jungle fighting.
take v. 1 grip, seize, grasp, clasp, get, get or take hold of, grab, snatch, clutch, catch, capture, obtain, lay hold of, lay (one's) hands on, procure, acquire, gain (possession of), take possession of, secure, win, carry off, abduct, Colloq nab: The police took him into custody. He takes what he can get. When it comes to ineptitude, Sue certainly takes the prize. 2 pick, select, choose, opt for, settle or decide or fasten on or upon: When you get to the fork, take the road to the left. 3 appropriate, arrogate, extract, carry off or away, steal, purloin, pilfer, filch, palm, rob, shoplift, pocket, remove, walk off or away with, run or make off or away with; embezzle, misappropriate, peculate; plagiarize, pirate; Colloq lift, swipe, snitch, Chiefly Brit pinch, nick, Slang knock off, hook, rip off, liberate, US boost, crook: They took what didn't belong to them. 4 reserve, book, engage; hire, rent, lease: He took a room in a small hotel, where he began to write detective fiction. 5 acquire, get, adopt; assume, derive, obtain, draw, receive, inherit: He has taken his bad manners from you. The film takes its title from the book. 6 accept, receive, bear, withstand, stand, endure, weather, tolerate, abide, brave, go through, undergo, suffer, submit to, swallow, Colloq put up with, brook, stomach, Brit stick: She took the news about Leon's relapse quite well. I have taken quite enough from you already. 7 assume, bear, undertake, adopt, arrogate; acknowledge, accept: Kevin took full responsibility for the mistake. 8 believe, think, judge, deem, hold, feel; take for, assess (as), consider (as), regard (as), view (as), accept (for): I take people to be honest till proven otherwise. She took him for a fool when they first met. 9 carry, convey, bear, transport, bring, deliver, ferry; haul, cart: Will this train take me to Aylesbury? They took the bicycle to Old Lyme in a van. 10 take up, study, be involved or occupied in or with, apply oneself to, learn; read, Colloq tackle: I cannot believe that Doreen is taking home economics. He took a course in car maintenance. 11 prove or be effective or efficacious or operative or functional, take effect, take hold, operate, function, work, perform, Colloq do the trick: If the transplant fails to take, the doctors will have to operate again. 12 exact, extract, get: She took revenge by denying him certain privileges. 13 swallow, eat, consume, ingest, devour, gulp down, gobble up or down, wolf, bolt; drink, imbibe, quaff; inhale: Rudolf takes pills of every conceivable colour. The doctor said I could take a wee nip now and then. Sonya stepped out to take a breath of fresh air. 14 subtract, deduct, remove, take away, take from, take off: Take three from five. Five, take away two, leaves three. It's cheaper when you've taken off the discount. 15 end, terminate, annihilate, wipe out; kill: The assault on Leningrad took tens of thousands of lives. The Lord giveth and the Lord taketh away. 16 require, demand, need, necessitate, call for: Remember, it takes two to tango. It took him two years to complete the fresco. It takes six to sail his yawl. 17 hold, contain, accommodate, accept, fit in: This storage bin cannot take anything else, it's completely full. 18 convey, lead, conduct; escort, convoy, guide, accompany: This road takes you directly to the yacht club. He asked to be taken to the manager's office. 19 understand, gather, interpret, perceive, apprehend, deduce, conclude, infer, judge, deem, assume, suppose, imagine, see: I take it from your expression that you've had bad news. 20 charm, captivate, capture, attract, lure, allure: There was something about him that took her fancy. 21 use, employ, make use of, establish, put in(to) place, adopt, put into effect, effect, apply; resort to, have recourse to, turn to: The police have taken measures to ensure that it doesn't happen again. 22 clear, get or go over or past or round or through: Browning's Delight took the last jump easily. He must have taken that corner at 90! 23 experience, entertain, feel: She seemed to take an instant dislike to me. 24 express, voice, raise, put forth: I hope you will not take objection or exception to what I am about to tell you. 25 cause or make or induce or drive or persuade (someone) to go or be: What takes you to M laga in August? 26 act, assume, play, perform: I'm taking the part of the wicked witch in the local pantomime. 27 bilk, cheat, swindle, defraud, Colloq con, Brit fiddle: When he examined his wallet he realized he'd been taken. 28 take aback. astound, astonish, surprise, startle, shock: She was really taken aback at the news. 29 take after. a resemble, look like, be the spitting image or the spit and image of, favour, remind one of, Colloq be a chip off the old block: He takes after his grandfather. b Sometimes, take off after. chase, follow, run after, pursue: When the man stole the newspaper and ran, the shopkeeper took after him at a gallop. 30 take back. retract, withdraw, recant, disavow, repudiate: He now wants to take back what he said about you. 31 take down. a note, make a note or memo or memorandum of, write down, record, put or set down, put in writing, document, transcribe, chronicle: Please take down what I am about to tell you. b debase, deflate, lower, diminish, belittle, depreciate, deprecate, humble, humiliate, shame, disparage, degrade, disgrace: She certainly took that pompous ass down a peg or two. 32 take in. a accommodate, receive, let in, quarter, board, lodge: When her children grew up and left home, she decided to take in lodgers. b deceive, fool, trick, impose upon, overcharge, cheat, mulct, defraud, cozen, bilk, dupe, gull, hoodwink, swindle, Colloq bamboozle, con, pull the wool over (someone's) eyes, Slang Brit do: He was really taken in by that time-share deal. c include, subsume, embrace, comprise, cover, encompass, contain: Our sales figures take in all of North America, not just Canada. 33 take it. a withstand or tolerate or survive punishment or abuse, survive: The Marines are extremely tough and can take it. b See 20, above. 34 take off, remove, doff, strip or peel off, discard, divest (oneself) of: Take off your hat in the house. b satirize, lampoon, caricature, mock, parody, travesty, burlesque, mimic, imitate, Colloq spoof, Brit send up: It is not always easy to take off members of the Cabinet. c depart, leave, go (away), decamp; fly off, become airborne, lift off, blast off; Colloq skedaddle, make (oneself) scarce, Slang hit the road, scram, beat it, split: You'd better take off before they find you here. The plane is due to take off at 18:35. 35 take on, hire, engage, employ, enrol, enlist, retain: We are so busy that we have taken on ten new people. b challenge, rival, face, contend against, oppose, match or pit (oneself) against, vie with, fight: Are you in any condition to take on the champion? c assume, accept, undertake, tackle: You might be taking on more than you bargained for. 36 take out. entertain, escort, invite out; court, woo: He took her out to dinner at a Chinese restaurant. 37 take over. assume or take or usurp or gain control or possession or command of: A huge conglomerate is trying to take over our company. 38 take to. a like, find pleasant or pleasing, feel affection or liking or affinity for, find suitable: We took to each other the very first time we met. He took to computers as a duck takes to water. b leave or depart or take off for, run for, head for, flee to, make for: When the attack came, the villagers took to the hills. 39 take up. a pick up, accept, agree to, acquiesce to, accede to: She took up his offer, and they've been married for forty years. b assume, resume, carry on, continue, go on with, follow on with, pick up: After a pause, he took up the thread of the story once more. c espouse, embrace, become interested or involved in, support, sponsor, advocate: She took up the cause of women's rights at her age? d occupy, cover, use (up), fill (up): Bernard's exercise equipment now takes up half the living-room. e deal with, treat, consider, bring up, raise: Next week our panellists will take up the question, 'Who benefits from education?' --n. 40 revenue, takings, yield, return, receipts, proceeds, gain, profit(s); gate, box office: How much was the take from the first day?
tall adj. 1 high, towering, big, soaring, lofty, giant, gigantic; multi-storey: The giant sequoias of California are the tallest trees in the world. There are many tall buildings in most major cities. 2 lanky, gangling, rangy, leggy, long-legged, big, giant, huge, gigantic, large: Some of those basketball players are unbelievably tall. 3 exaggerated, overblown, far-fetched, improbable, unbelievable, incredible, preposterous, outrageous, overdone, absurd, Colloq Brit steep: He told us some amusing tall tales about his fishing adventures.
target n. goal, object, objective, aim, end; butt, quarry: The target of the charity drive is to raise 30,000. Why make Peter the target of your ridicule?
tautology n. repetition, redundancy, battology, pleonasm, iteration, tautologism; repetitiousness, repetitiveness, wordiness, prolixity, verbiage, verbosity, long-windedness: Clichs like 'null and void' and 'cease and desist' are tautologies. Tautology, when called 'repetition', is often used for rhetorical effect.
teenager n. adolescent, youth, boy, girl, young man, young lady, juvenile, minor, Colloq kid: The town ought to provide a place where teenagers can get together.
temple n. place or house of worship, holy place, house of God, church, synagogue, mosque, pagoda, cathedral, sanctuary, chapel, shrine, Yiddish shul or schul: Temples to gods are found throughout the world.
tendency n. inclination, bent, leaning, disposition, propensity, predisposition, proclivity, predilection, susceptibility, proneness, readiness, partiality, affinity, bias, drift, direction, trend, movement: Brian has always had a tendency to being overweight. The particles exhibit a tendency to align themselves north and south.
terminology n. nomenclature, vocabulary, language, words, locutions, wording, terms, phraseology, phrasing, jargon, shop-talk, argot, cant, Colloq lingo: Medical terminology requires specialized dictionaries.
testy adj. irritable, bad-tempered, irascible, short-tempered, petulant, touchy, tetchy, querulous, peevish, hot-tempered, crusty, cross, grumpy, grouchy, bearish, crabby, crabbed, fretful, captious, waspish, snappish, quarrelsome, fractious, contentious, choleric, splenetic, ill-humoured, disagreeable, ill-tempered, edgy, on edge, quick-tempered, crotchety, cantankerous, US cranky, Colloq and US and Canadian dialect ornery: The old colonel made a few testy remarks about the boys' haircuts. Why make excuses for his being so testy?
therapist n. psychotherapist, psychologist, analyst, therapeutist, psychiatrist, psychoanalyst, counsellor, advisor, Colloq shrink: For some problems it is best to seek the advice of a trained counsellor or therapist.
thinking adj. 1 rational, sensible, ratiocinative, intelligent, reasoning, reasonable; meditative, contemplative, reflective, philosophical, cogitative, pensive, thoughtful, intellectual: Any thinking person would have done the same as you. --n. 2 opinion, judgement, belief, thought, point of view, viewpoint, assessment, evaluation, theory, reasoning, conclusion, idea, philosophy, outlook: There is nothing either good or bad, but thinking makes it so. Do you concur with the current thinking on education?
threatening adj. ominous, menacing, portentous, sinister, looming, inauspicious, minatory, minacious, comminatory, intimidating, foreboding, imminent, impending: Threatening storm clouds began to build in the western sky.
thumbnail adj. rough, undetailed, cursory, sketchy, superficial; brief, short, quick; compact, concise, pithy, succinct: His poetry is a chilling, thumbnail sketch of the way we live now.
tight adj. 1 secure, firm, fast, fixed, secured, close-fitting, snug, sealed, hermetically sealed, leak-proof, hermetic, impervious, impenetrable, impermeable, airtight, watertight, waterproof,: Make sure that the lid is tight. 2 taut, stretched, tense, constricting, (too) small, ill-fitting: She was wearing a very tight dress. 3 strict, binding, restrictive, stringent, severe, tough, uncompromising, unyielding, rigorous, stern, austere, autocratic, harsh, hard and fast, inflexible: You can't get away with anything under such tight regulations. I have a tight schedule next week. 4 Chiefly nautical taut, (well-)disciplined, orderly, neat, well-organized, trim, tidy, smart: He runs a tight ship. 5 stingy, niggardly, mean, penurious, miserly, parsimonious, penny-pinching, tight-fisted, close-fisted, Colloq Brit mingy: Glenn is much too tight to buy anyone a drink. 6 close, (almost) even, (highly) competitive, neck and neck, evenly matched: It is going to be a tight race. 7 difficult, trying, dangerous, perilous, risky, hazardous, touchy, problematic, sticky, tricky, ticklish, precarious, touch-and-go: The strike has created a tight situation at the office. 8 tipsy, drunk, intoxicated, Colloq high, woozy, under the influence, Brit tiddly: When I saw her, she was too tight to drive. 9 scarce, scanty, hard to find or come by, rare; dear, expensive: Entrepreneurs have found investment money to be pretty tight this year. --adv. 10 tightly, securely, firmly; closely: Keep this door closed tight. Hold me tight. Her hands were clasped tight in prayer. 11 compactly, densely, solidly, firmly, closely: We were packed so tight in the bus that no one could move.
time-worn adj. ageing, old, tired, worn, time-scarred, decrepit, dilapidated, tumbledown, ramshackle, run-down, dog-eared, ragged, moth-eaten, threadbare, seedy, shabby, archaic, antique, well-worn, worn out, pass, broken-down, old-fashioned, out-dated, dated, antiquated, ancient, obsolescent, obsolete, stereotyped, stereotypic(al), hackneyed, stale, trite, overused, Colloq old hat: She went into her time-worn routine about two living as cheaply as one.
title n. 1 name: You cannot tell much from a book's title. 2 designation, appellation, epithet: Aubrey is now an earl, but he rarely uses his title. 3 caption, inscription, headline, head, subtitle, legend, subhead, rubric: The title on this picture has nothing to do with its subject. 4 championship, crown: He holds the world heavyweight boxing title. 5 right, interest, privilege, entitlement, ownership, possession, tenure; (title-)deed, documentation of ownership: My aunt has sole title to these lands. --v. 6 name, call, designate, style, label, term, entitle, christen, baptize, nickname, denominate, tag, dub: Harold was titled King of the Revels.
tongue-lashing n. scolding, berating, reproof, rebuke, reprimand; (verbal) abuse, castigation, chastisement, vituperation, revilement, Colloq dressing-down, telling-off, talking-to, Brit slating, ticking-off, wigging: For all his efforts to please, he only got a tongue-lashing for interfering.
toss v. 1 throw, cast, lob, pitch, fling, hurl, heave, shy, launch, send, let fly, propel, catapult, sling, bowl, Colloq chuck: The goalkeeper tossed the ball into the middle of the field. 2 shake, jerk, stir up, agitate, fling: Lucy disdainfully tossed her head. 3 shake (up), stir (up), agitate, jiggle, tumble, joggle; wave, lash, thrash: Don't you put the dressing on before you toss the salad? The branches of the huge oak were being tossed about in the storm. 4 writhe, wriggle, squirm, toss and turn, thrash: I tossed all night, unable to get a moment's sleep. 5 pitch, yaw, wallow, roll, lurch, undulate, plunge: Our little boat was tossed this way and that in the heavy seas. --n. 6 throw, lob, pitch, heave, shy: His toss went wild and the ball rolled over the cliff.
tout v. 1 hawk, peddle, sell, promote, talk up, Colloq push, plug: They tout these new headache tablets as miraculous. --n. 2 tipster: He is often seen with racetrack touts.
tradition n. custom, practice, habit, usage, convention, ritual, rite, unwritten law, institution, form, praxis, lore: Exchanging gifts on Christmas Eve has long been a tradition in our family.
tranquil adj. calm, serene, placid, quiet, peaceful, still, smooth, unagitated, halcyon, relaxed; unruffled, sedate, steady, regular, even, dispassionate, self-possessed, cool, self-controlled, cool-headed, unexcited, undisturbed, untroubled, unperturbed: He often thought back to the tranquil, sultry summer days of his youth. How can Eleanor be so tranquil when everything about her is so chaotic?
transgressor n. sinner, offender, criminal, felon, culprit, lawbreaker, trespasser, wrongdoer, evil-doer, villain, miscreant, malefactor, delinquent: The majority of transgressors are apprehended within 24 hours of the crime.
traumatic adj. shocking, upsetting, disturbing, painful, agonizing, distressing, harmful, hurtful, injurious, damaging, wounding, traumatizing: Few experiences are more traumatic than losing a child.
tribunal n. court (of justice), bar, bench, judiciary, Inquisition, Star Chamber: Should he be tried before a judicial tribunal or pilloried by the tribunal of public opinion?
trivialize v. belittle, denigrate, lessen, minimize, undervalue, depreciate, underestimate, underrate, make light of, laugh off, underplay, dismiss, disparage, misprize, beggar, deprecate, slight, scoff at, scorn, run down, decry, Colloq put down, play down, pooh-pooh: Edward tends to trivialize the work of others.
trusting adj. trustful, unsuspicious, confiding, confident, unsuspecting; nave, innocent, gullible, incautious, credulous: It is a good thing that her husband has a trusting nature. Samantha might be a little too trusting and could easily be deceived.
turn v. 1 rotate, revolve, spin, roll, reel, circle, gyrate, whirl, wheel, go (a)round or about, pivot, swivel: The earth turns on its axis. Turn the crank to raise the bucket. 2 move, shift, wheel, veer, swing, face: As she turned I noticed a horrible scar. 3 reverse, turn (a)round, alter, change, adapt, reorganize, remodel, modify, refashion, reshape, reform, transform, make over, convert, bring over: He has been trying to turn the business into a profit-making enterprise. He has turned defeat into advance. She managed to turn one of the most loyal membrs of the government. 4 go or pass or move (a)round, veer, drive, walk: Turn left at the corner. 5 go bad, become rancid, spoil, curdle, addle, sour, decay, moulder, rot, putrefy, Colloq go off: All the milk in the fridge had turned because of the power cut. 6 apply, put, use, employ: Is there any way we can turn this situation to our advantage? 7 Sometimes, turn aside or away. block, avert, thwart, prevent, balk or baulk, parry, deflect, fend off, check: He deftly turned aside the thrust of the dagger. 8 form, make up, fashion, formulate, construct, cast, create, coin, concoct, express: Donald certainly knows how to turn a felicitous phrase. 9 direct, aim, point: He turned the gun on himself and pulled the trigger. 10 twist, sprain, wrench: I have turned my ankle and cannot walk. 11 twist, wind, snake, curve, bend, arc, coil, loop, meander, zigzag: The road turned this way and that, following the river bank. 12 turn against. defy, mutiny, rebel, revolt, rise (up) against: The captain had not expected the first mate to turn against him, too. 13 turn back. a reverse, repulse, repel, rebuff, drive back, beat back: At last we turned back the enemy's advance. b go back, retrace (one's) steps, return: We must turn back before it is too late. 14 turn down. a refuse, reject, rebuff, decline, deny: My request for help was turned down. b decrease or diminish or lessen or lower or soften the sound of: Turn down the radio, I'm on the phone. 15 turn in. a go to bed or sleep, retire, withdraw, call it a day, Slang hit the sack or the hay: I usually turn in by eleven o'clock. b hand in or over, turn over, deliver, give in, submit, offer, proffer, tender, give back, return, surrender, yield: Please turn in your visitors' badges before you leave. c turn over, deliver (up), inform on, betray, Colloq squeal on, rat on, finger, tell on: For enough money, he'd turn in his own mother. 16 turn into. a turn to, become, change into or to, metamorphose into or to: Right before her, the prince turned into a frog again. b go or come into, drive into, pull into, walk into: They lost sight of the suspect when he turned into a side-street. 17 turn off. a stop, switch off, deactivate, discontinue; extinguish: First turn off the water, then the light. b disillusion, depress, cool (off), disenchant, disaffect, alienate, repel, repulse, bore, offend, put off, displease, sicken, nauseate, disgust: People who don't brush their teeth turn me off. c deviate, diverge: When you come to the fork, turn off to the right. 18 turn on. a start (up), switch on, energize, activate, set in motion, cause to function or operate: Turn on the light. b depend on or upon, be contingent on, hinge on or upon, be subject to: The success of the venture turns on our ability to capitalize it. c excite, thrill, arouse, stimulate, titillate, work up, impassion: He was really turned on by the girl in the bar. 19 turn on or upon. a concern, revolve about, relate to: The discussion turned on his ability to write music. b be hostile to, attack, assail, set upon, Colloq tear into: Oliver is so unpopular that his own dog turned on him and bit him. 20 turn out. a make, form, shape, construct, build, fabricate, put together, assemble, manufacture, produce, put out, bring out: The plant turns out a thousand cars a week. b develop, evolve, eventuate, happen, result, prove, occur, end up, arise: As it turned out, he lost anyway. It turns out that he knows my sister. c eject, evict, throw out, expel, oust, dismiss, terminate, cashier, Colloq fire, sack, kick out, axe, Brit turf out: When they found I wasn't a member, they turned me out. d dress, fit out, equip, rig out, accoutre or US also accouter: She was well turned out in a beautiful ball gown. e come, arrive, appear, attend, assemble, meet, Colloq show (up), surface: 55,000 turned out for the rock concert. 21 turn over. a consider, muse or ruminate over or about, revolve, ponder (over): I needed a while to turn over the job offer in my mind. b reverse, invert, turn upside down: Turn over the clock and read the inscription on the bottom. c overturn, upset, knock over: In my haste, I turned over the punch bowl. d sell, merchandise: A shop in that location ought to turn over a million a year. e rotate, revolve, spin, kick over: The engine turns over, but it won't start. 22 turn tail. run away, flee, bolt, scoot, show a clean pair of heels, cut and run, take to (one's) heels, beat a hasty retreat, Colloq take off, beat it, scram, skedaddle: He turned tail when I shouted for help. 23 turn to. a appeal to, apply to, resort to: She turned to me for help. b advert to, refer to, pick or take up, have recourse to: Please turn to your exercise books now. c get to work, pitch in, buckle or knuckle down: The neighbours turned to in helping clean up the mess after the storm. d turn into, change to, convert into, become: Lot's wife was turned to salt. 24 turn turtle. capsize, overturn, keel over, upset, up-end, Colloq go bottoms up: The overloaded barge turned turtle and sank in the river. 25 turn up. a surface, appear, arrive, Colloq show (up), show one's face: Guess who turned up at our wedding? b come up, arise, Colloq crop up, pop up: Something will turn up soon for you. c uncover, discover, find, unearth, come across, hit upon, dig up, expose, disclose, reveal, bring to light: We turned up a formerly unknown fact about the shipwreck. d increase or raise or amplify or intensify the sound of: Turn up the TV - I can't hear what they're saying. --n. 26 revolution, rotation, cycle, spin, whirl, circuit, round, roll, twirl; pirouette: He gave the top another turn, just to make sure it was on securely. 27 curve, bend, turning, corner, sinuosity, dog-leg, hairpin bend or curve, irregularity, meander, twist, zigzag, Colloq toing and froing: There are many dangerous turns on that road. 28 loop, coil, spiral, twist: Take two turns of this rope round your waist, then knot it. 29 deviation, turning, detour, shift, change of direction or course: A turn to the right is not permitted at this corner. 30 opportunity, chance, say, round, spell, time, watch, shift, stint, tour (of duty), move, trick, Colloq whack, crack, shot, go: You have had your turn, now let someone else go. 31 drive, spin, ride; airing, constitutional, ramble, saunter, stroll, walk, promenade, amble: Let's take a short turn round the park. 32 trend, direction, drift: The conversation took a new turn. 33 change, alteration, switch: The doctor says that Valerie has taken a turn for the better. 34 Usually, bad turn. disservice, harm, injury, wrong: If you do someone a bad turn, what can you expect? 35 Usually, good turn. favour, (good) deed, act (of kindness), courtesy, boon, mercy: One good turn deserves another. 36 shock, fright, surprise, start, scare: You really gave me a turn, jumping out like that! 37 form, style, manner, mode: Each turn of phrase in her writing seems original and refreshing. 38 disposition, inclination, bent, bias, leaning, tendency: Alistair is of a rather dour turn of mind tonight.39	at every turn. everywhere, constantly, always, all the time: In Scotland, we met with kindness and hospitality at every turn.40	by turns. alternately, reciprocally, in rotation, successively, in succession: The book is fascinating and frustrating by turns. 41 in turn. sequentially, one after the other, in succession, successively, in (proper) order: Each patient will be treated in turn. 42 out of turn. a out of sequence, out of order: I don't want you answering questions out of proper turn, Jonathan. b imprudently, indiscreetly, improperly, disobediently, inappropriately: I apologize if I am speaking out of turn on this issue. 43 take turns. alternate, vary, rotate, exchange: Let's take turns looking through the telescope.
twinkle v. 1 scintillate, sparkle, coruscate, glitter, shimmer, wink, flicker, glisten, glint, flash, fulgurate, spark, dance, blink, shine, gleam: The stars were twinkling in the icy black sky. Nicole's eyes twinkled as she told me about Max's latest success. --n. 2 twinkling, scintillation, scintillating, sparkle, sparkling, coruscation, coruscating, glitter, glittering, shimmer, shimmering, winking, flicker, flickering, glistening, glint, flash, flashing, fulguration, spark, sparking, dancing, blinking, shine, shining, gleam, gleaming, dazzle, dazzling: From far off, I caught the twinkle of the sun on car windscreens.
tyrant n. dictator, despot, autocrat, martinet, Hitler, bully, oppressor, authoritarian, hard taskmaster, slave-driver, Simon Legree, overlord: It seems that no people or part of the world is immune to tyrants.
unacceptable adj. unsatisfactory, objectionable, wrong, bad, improper, unallowable, undesirable, not de rigueur, distasteful, disagreeable, unsuitable, inappropriate, unpleasant, tasteless: Murder is generally regarded as an unacceptable way to relieve oneself of unwanted company.
unbearable adj. intolerable, unsupportable, unendurable, insufferable, unacceptable, too much: The pain in her side was almost unbearable.
undercut v. 1 undermine, excavate, hollow out, cut out or away, gouge out: If you undercut the roadway it will collapse. 2 underprice, undercharge, sacrifice, sell cheaply or at a loss, undersell: The supermarkets undercut prices and put the independent grocers out of business.
underwrite v. 1 back (up), finance, support, invest in, subsidize, subvene, sponsor, uphold, approve, insure, guarantee, US subvene: The company has agreed to underwrite the development of your invention. 2 subscribe to, endorse or indorse, sign, countersign, consent to, agree to, confirm, accede to, sanction, ratify, approve, validate, Colloq OK or okay: The government underwrote the action one day, then denied knowledge of it the next.
unearthly adj. 1 supernatural, unnatural, preternatural, unworldly, other-worldly, psychic(al), extramundane, extraterrestrial, extrasensory, supersensory, out-of-(the)-body, asomatous, incorporeal, sublime, celestial, astral: They speculated about what unearthly experiences space travel might lead to. 2 weird, bizarre, macabre, nightmarish, uncanny, eerie, strange, ghostly, spectral, unreal, Literary eldritch, Colloq spooky, creepy: An unearthly creature appeared in a mist before her. 3 strange, odd, peculiar, unusual, abnormal, absurd, out of the ordinary, extraordinary, outrageous; unheard-of, unreasonable, Colloq ungodly: The baby wakes up at the unearthly hour of three o'clock every morning.
ungrateful adj. unthankful, unappreciative, rude; selfish, heedless: That ungrateful wretch never thanked me for all my help.
uninhibited adj. wild, unchecked, unbridled, uncurbed, intemperate, boisterous, unrepressed, unconstrained, unrestrained, uncontrolled, unselfconscious, unreserved, relaxed, casual, easygoing, free (and easy), open, frank, candid, outspoken, Colloq upfront: Their behaviour at the party was totally uninhibited. I will tell you what I think only if I can be totally uninhibited about it.
unlike adj. 1 different (from), dissimilar (to), unalike, distinct (from), opposite (from or to), contrasting or contrastive (with or to), separate (from), divergent (from), incompatible (with), distinguishable (from), far apart (from), far (from), distant (from), ill-matched (with), unequal (to), unequivalent (to): His notions of right and wrong are unlike those of other people. Although they're brothers, they look quite unlike each other. 2 atypical, uncharacteristic, untypical: It is unlike you to complain. --prep. 3 different from, differing from, in contradistinction to, in contrast with or to, dissimilar to, distinct from, opposite from or to, contrasting with or to, divergent from, incompatible with, distinguishable from, ill-matched with, unequal to, unequivalent to: Unlike you, I've been there and know what it's like.
unpaid adj. 1 payable, outstanding, owed, owing, due, unsettled: In the end he absconded, leaving a pile of unpaid bills. 2 unsalaried, voluntary, volunteer, honorary, US dollar-a-year: On retirement, she took an unpaid job with Oxfam.
unreasonable adj. 1 irrational, illogical, unthinking, absurd, foolish, senseless, nonsensical, mindless, brainless, thoughtless, silly, mad, crazy, insane, idiotic, moronic, imbecilic, stupid, fatuous, ridiculous, ludicrous, laughable, preposterous, far-fetched, short-sighted, unperceptive, unperceiving, undiscerning, myopic, blind: Some people have an unreasonable aversion to anything scientific. Is it unreasonable to expect you to spend a little time with your mother? 2 excessive, outrageous, exorbitant, extravagant, immoderate, extortionate, inordinate, unconscionable, unjust, unwarranted, inequitable, unfair, unequal, improper, unjustified, unjustifiable, uncalled-for: The new tax puts an unreasonable demand on those with lower incomes. 3 inappropriate, unapt or inapt, unsuitable, unbefitting, impractical, unrealistic: His conduct was quite unreasonable for a man of the cloth.
unsettling adj. unnerving, upsetting, disturbing, perturbing, discomfiting, disconcerting: Sorry for being a wet blanket, but I have had some unsettling news from home.
unthinking adj. 1 thoughtless, mindless, undiscriminating, unconsidered, unwitting, unreflecting, unthoughtful, irrational, unreasonable, illogical, unperceptive, unperceiving, undiscerning, witless, brainless, foolish, senseless, nonsensical, rash, stupid, silly, mad, crazy, insane, idiotic, moronic, imbecilic, hasty, short-sighted: It was unthinking of me to ask her mother to go out to dinner with us. 2 inconsiderate, impolite, tactless, rude, thoughtless, undiplomatic, discourteous, uncivil, imprudent, unwise, indiscreet, neglectful: On the other hand, it would have been unthinking of me not to ask her mother.
unwieldy adj. awkward, clumsy, bulky, oversized, cumbersome, ungainly, unmanageable, unhandy, unmanoeuvrable: The huge oil tankers, though economical, often proved unwieldy in the ports they visited.
uproot v. 1 transfer, transplant, move, displace; exile, banish: Finney has been uprooted five times in his career with the firm. 2 deracinate, extirpate, root out, dig out, pluck out, tear out; destroy, demolish, ruin, eradicate, annihilate, kill, ruin, devastate, ravage: Thousands of trees were uprooted by the hurricane.
usual adj. same, customary, habitual, accustomed, familiar, well-known, common, everyday, established, traditional, set, time-honoured, old, conventional, workaday, stock, wonted, regular, ordinary, normal, expected, routine, typical, run-of-the-mill, stereotypic(al), hackneyed, trite, prosaic, worn out, shop-worn, predictable, unexceptional, unoriginal, unremarkable, unimaginative: The usual answer I get is 'Why?' I missed my usual train this morning. They still sing the usual drinking songs.
variance n. 1 variation, difference, disparity, discrepancy, disagreement, deviation, inconsistency, divergence, incongruity: The monitor takes account of minute variance in blood pressure. 2 disagreement, misunderstanding, discord, difference (of opinion), dissension, contention, dispute, dissent, controversy, quarrel, conflict, argument, debate, lack of harmony, falling out, schism, rift: There has never been any variance between us about the disciplining of the children. 3 at variance. in dispute, in disagreement, quarrelling, in contention, in conflict: The workforce was at variance with management in the matter of day care.
vendetta n. (blood) feud, quarrel, dispute, conflict, rivalry, enmity, bitterness, hatred, ill will, bad blood: Fifty years after leaving Palermo, the vendetta between their families still persisted.
verge v. incline, lean, tend, extend, stretch, turn; approach, draw, move: The road verges southwards after the bridge.
viable adj. sustainable, supportable, sensible, reasonable, practical, practicable, applicable, workable, feasible, possible: We have three days to come up with a viable plan for continuing the research project.
viewpoint n. standpoint, (point of) view, attitude, angle, slant, position, stance, vantage point, perspective, frame of reference, way of thinking, context: From our viewpoint, widening the road only encourages speeding.
violent adj. 1 wild, physical, destructive, vehement, brutal, brutish, beastly, nasty, cruel, mean, barbarous, inhuman, savage, fierce, ferocious, furious, frenzied, uncontrollable, untamed, ungovernable, raging, raving, irrational, insane, crazed, Colloq fit to be tied: Tony turned into a violent maniac when he suspected her of seeing another man. 2 harmful, injurious, damaging, detrimental, destructive, deleterious, catastrophic, cataclysmic, ruinous, devastating: This was the most violent earthquake to hit Mexico in recorded history. 3 acute, serious, severe, extreme, harsh, trenchant, virulent, intense, energetic, forceful, vehement, passionate, impetuous,tempestuous: The proceedings were interrupted by an outburst of violent abuse from the public gallery.
vitalize v. stimulate, activate, arouse, vivify, animate, awaken, inspirit, invigorate, enliven, inspire, revive, rejuvenate, innervate, energize, fortify, reinvigorate, renew, refresh, charge (up): The tonic vitalized him to the point where he felt young again.
voluntarily adv. freely, willingly, spontaneously, of (one's) own free will, on (one's) own (initiative or recognizance or responsibility), without prompting, without being prompted or asked, gratis, gratuitously; by choice, intentionally, purposely, on purpose, deliberately: Some of the students spent their summer vacation voluntarily helping the needy.
wag n. comedian, wit, punster, pundit, joker, jester, comic, jokester, droll, merry andrew, clown, Colloq card: A wag said that tailors were like storks - known for their big bills.
wane v. 1 decrease, diminish, grow less, lessen, decline, die out, abate, ebb, subside, fade (away), dim, taper off, peter out, wind down, weaken: The waning moon cast its pale light on the dying knight. As his strength waned he could no longer lift his sword. 2 draw to a close, end, terminate: The day waned into a gloomy evening. --n. 3 decrease, diminution, lessening, decline, abatement, ebb, subsidence, fading, tapering off, petering out, winding down, weakening, deterioration, degeneration: The 1970s saw the wane in popularity of large, gas-guzzling cars. 4 on the wane. on the decrease or decline or ebb, diminishing, decreasing, declining, abating, subsiding, fading, tapering off, petering out, winding down, weakening, deteriorating, degenerating: The economy is recovering, and inflation is on the wane. Since that latest illness, my energy has been on the wane.
warning n. 1 caution, admonition, advice, counsel, caveat, word (to the wise), tip, notification, notice, threat; lesson, example: Cyril never took seriously his doctor's warning about his cholesterol level. Let that be a warning to you not to drink and drive. 2 omen, sign, signal, indication, augury, foretoken, portent, foreshadowing, forewarning, prophecy: Sailors take that kind of sky and a falling barometer as warning of a hurricane.
water-colour n. aquarelle: John's water-colours sell as fast as he paints them.
weave v. 1 loom; braid, plait, entwine, intertwine, interlace, interweave, knit (together): These fabrics were woven by hand. Weave these leather strands together to make a belt. 2 blend, combine, fuse, merge, unite, intermingle, mesh, splice, dovetail, join: The threads of their lives are inextricably woven together. 3 construct, make, contrive, build, create, fabricate, compose, spin, design: Oh, what a tangled web we weave When first we practise to deceive! 4 zigzag, criss-cross, wend or make (one's) way, dodge, bob and weave, shift: Look at that motor cyclist weaving in and out of the traffic! 5 get weaving. get started, get a move on, hurry (up), start, Colloq shake a leg, Brit get or pull (one's) finger out, Chiefly US get a wiggle on: If you're going to get to work on time, you'd best get weaving.
well adv. 1 satisfactorily, sufficiently, adequately, agreeably, nicely, (well) enough, Colloq OK or okay: Alan is doing well these days. 2 successfully, famously, marvellously, wonderfully, fabulously, incredibly, splendidly, admirably, spectacularly, excellently, superbly: Barbara and David really get along well together. 3 articulately, understandably, expressively, correctly, accurately, properly, proficiently, effectively, artistically, poetically; grammatically: Henry will make a good announcer because he speaks well. 4 comfortably, luxuriously, prosperously, extravagantly, showily, pretentiously, ostentatiously, sumptuously, grandly, opulently: How can Rita live so well with no visible income? Living well is the best revenge. 5 graciously, kindly, highly, favourably, glowingly, approvingly, warmly, genially, cordially, amiably, kind-heartedly, warm-heartedly, affectionately, lovingly: Rudolph has always spoken well of you, Aileen. 6 skilfully, expertly, adeptly, proficiently, ably: Does Anne play well enough to compete professionally? Paul sings well. 7 far, by a long way, immeasurably, (very) much; far and away, definitely, positively, obviously, clearly, plainly, manifestly, evidently, unquestionably, decidedly, beyond (the shadow of a) doubt, Colloq by a long chalk: Keep well away from the fuel tank before lighting that cigarette. She is well beyond the beginner stage. This painting is well worth what you paid. 8 good-naturedly, equably, coolly, serenely, calmly, soberly, unexcitedly, sedately: Burt took the bad news about his car very well. 9 likely, probably, in all probability, doubtlessly, without doubt, not unexpectedly, indeed: He might well say he needs no help. 10 easily, without difficulty: Though he gave her the money, he could not well spare it. 11 completely, entirely, wholly: Before she could well finish her sentence, he was out of the house. 12 thoroughly (cooked), (cooked) through and through, completely (cooked): He likes his roast beef well done. 13 intimately, closely, familiarly, personally; thoroughly, profoundly, soundly, fully: Do you know Boris well? I learnt my lesson well. 14 fairly, justly, suitably, properly, adequately, reasonably, fully, generously, amply: James is well paid for his work. 15 happily, mercifully, fortunately, luckily: After the divorce, both said they were well rid of each other. --adj. 16 healthy, fit, hale, robust, vigorous, hearty, in fine or good fettle, Colloq in good shape: Wendy felt really well after her holiday. 17 satisfactory, pleasing, agreeable, good, right, all right, fine, proper, OK or okay: When he phoned the office, they told him all was well.
wet adj. 1 moist, moistened, damp, dampened, soaked, soaking, sopping, wringing, dripping, sodden, soppy, saturated, drenched: During the rainy season, the ground is far too wet for planting. 2 rainy, raining, teeming, pouring, drizzling, showery: We have had a very wet spring this year. 3 feeble, weak, irresolute, effet, namby-pamby, foolish, ineffectual, ineffective, spineless, timorous, cowardly: She considered some of her colleagues too wet to take the tough action needed. --n. 4 moisture, water, wetness, dampness, damp, humidity, liquid: The wet stood out on his forehead. 5 rain, wetness, mist, dew, fog, damp, humidity: Come in out of the wet, and warm yourself by the fire. 6 milksop, softie or softy, lightweight, Colloq drip, loser, Brit weed, Slang wimp, US weak sister: Why is he such a wet about standing up for his rights? wheedle v. coax, cajole, inveigle, charm, beguile, persuade, talk; butter up; Colloq con, sweet-talk: Irena always managed to wheedle someone into taking her dancing.
wholehearted adj. devoted, dedicated, committed, earnest, sincere, unqualified, unmitigated, unreserved, complete, entire, unstinting, real, true, genuine, hearty, heartfelt, serious, enthusiastic, zealous, warm, fervent, ardent, spirited, eager, energetic: Once I agree to help, you can rely on my wholehearted support.
willingly adv. readily, happily, contentedly, gladly, cheerfully, amenably, agreeably, freely, passively, docilely, of (one's) own accord or free will, on (one's) own, ungrudgingly, by choice, voluntarily, unhesitatingly, nothing loath, eagerly, enthusiastically, zealously, avidly, Colloq at the drop of a hat: We did not coerce him in any way - he went along quite willingly. You can rely on Hubert to give willingly and generously to support any good cause.
wise adj. 1 sage, sagacious, judicious, reasonable, commonsensical, prudent, sensible, insightful, sapient, understanding, rational, sound, clear-sighted, clear-headed, discerning, perspicacious, perspicuous, percipient, perceptive, intelligent, acute, astute, sharp, shrewd, crafty, clever, bright, quick-witted, smart, brilliant, long-headed, Colloq brainy: Among the wisest of men were Solomon, Confucius, Buddha, and, perhaps, Aristotle. 2 knowledgeable, learned, enlightened, informed, erudite; (well-)educated, knowing, well-read, well-versed, lettered, scholarly: We saw to it that they escaped, and the police were none the wiser. Wise heads prevailed at the college on what constituted worthwhile research. 3 well-advised, advisable, judicious, sensible, expedient, reasonable, strategic, tactful, tactical, prudent, politic, discreet, diplomatic, well-thought-out, well-considered, proper, fitting, appropriate, meet: Do you think it wise to punish the child so severely? 4 put wise (to). inform or advise or warn (of or about): If you must know how he found out, it was Myrna who put him wise. Did she also put him wise to where the money is hidden? 5 wise to. aware or knowledgeable or informed of or about, sensitive to, on to or onto, Colloq in the know about: You are wrong if you think she isn't wise to your little tricks. Get wise to what's going on, Man. --v. 6 wise up (to). become informed or aware (of or about), wake up (to), Colloq get wise (to) or in the know (about): If Cooley doesn't wise up, he'll be in deep trouble. Was it you who wised Meg up to the fact that Tom no longer cares?
wizened adj. wrinkled, shrunken, shrivelled (up), withered, gnarled, dried up, wilted, faded, wasted: The wizened old crone is his grandmother.
worldly adv. 1 mundane, earthly, terrestrial, temporal, physical, carnal, fleshly, corporeal, human; lay, non-spiritual, non-religious, civic, secular, profane: Theo indulged in worldly pleasures in the fleshpots of the continent. Veronica put aside worldly things and took the veil. 2 urbane, suave, sophisticated, cosmopolitan, worldly-wise, Slang with it, hip, cool: Behind that worldly manner is the heart of a peasant.
wrestle v. battle, fight, struggle, tussle, strive: After thirty years Garth wrestled his way to the top in the company.
yearn v. long, pine, ache, hanker, itch, hunger, thirst, crave, have a craving, desire, wish, want, fancy, prefer: I yearn to see the green-clad hills of home once more, Before my vessel bears me from this mortal shore.
zero n. 1 nil, null, nothing, nought or naught, aught, cipher, Cricket duck, Colloq nix, US goose-egg, nada, niente, Slang Brit (sweet) Fanny Adams or FA, bugger-all, US zilch: Temperatures have remained below zero all day. The visiting team won three games, we won zero. 2 (rock) bottom, nadir: On a scale of one to ten, she is a zero. 3 nobody, nothing, nonentity, Slang US nebbish, bupkis: That fellow she married is a real zero. --v. 4 zero in on. focus on, pinpoint, fix on, home in on, concentrate on,bring to bear on: We zeroed in on the problem and then rapidly found the answer.