abet v. 1 encourage, urge, instigate, incite, provoke, egg on, prod, goad; aid, help, assist: The jury found that his wife had abetted him in the murder. 2 countenance, approve (of), support, endorse, second, sanction, condone; further, advance, promote, uphold: By failing to inform on the terrorists, the neighbours abetted the bombing.
able adj. 1 capable, qualified, competent, proficient: I feel quite able to take care of myself, thank you. He is an able tennis player. 2 talented, clever, skilled, masterful, masterly; adept, skilful, gifted, superior, expert, accomplished: There is no doubt that Wellington was a very able general.
abound v. 1 prevail, thrive, flourish: Disease abounds among the undernourished peoples of Africa. 2 abound in. be crowded or packed or jammed with, be abundant or rich in, proliferate (in or with): The ship abounds in conveniences. 3 abound with. teem or swarm or throng with, be filled or infested with, overflow with: The ship abounds with rats.
abrupt adj. 1 sudden, hasty, quick, precipitate, snappy; unexpected, unannounced, unplanned, unforeseen, unanticipated: The general's abrupt departure has been linked with the disappearance of a great deal of money. 2 precipitous, steep, sheer, sudden: From the ridge there is an abrupt drop of 1000 metres into the valley. 3 curt, short, brusque, blunt, bluff, gruff, uncivil, rude, discourteous, impolite, unceremonious, snappish: My bank manager gave me an abrupt reply when I asked for an increased overdraft.
abstract adj. 1 theoretical, unapplied, notional, ideational, conceptual, metaphysical, unpractical, intellectual: It is difficult to capture abstract ideas on paper. 2 non-representational, symbolic, non-realistic: Museums began buying abstract art in the 1930s. --n. 3 summary, epitome, synopsis, essence, digest, condensation, survey, conspectus, extract; outline, prcis, rsum: By reading the abstracts, you can determine which articles merit reading in full. --v. 4 epitomize, abbreviate, digest, summarize, condense, shorten, abridge, cut, cut down, US synopsize: The service abstracts articles that appear in scientific journals.
abysmal adj. 1 awful, appalling, dreadful, terrible, profound: The government of Nero presented a spectacle of abysmal degradation. 2 abyssal, bottomless, profound, unfathomable, unfathomed: The abysmal depths have been plumbed in the diving bell.
accident n. 1 mishap, misfortune, mischance, misadventure, blunder, mistake; casualty, disaster, catastrophe, calamity: A high percentage of the road accidents were caused by drunken drivers. 2 chance, fortune, luck, fortuity, fluke; serendipity: I came across the gold ring by accident, when cleaning out a disused cupboard. 3 non-essential, accessory or accessary, extra, addition: Melancholy is an almost inseparable accident of old age.
accomplished adj. consummate, perfect, expert, adept, skilful, proficient, practised, gifted, talented, skilled, professional: Did you know that she is also an accomplished flautist?
accumulation n. 1 collecting, amassing, gathering, piling or aggregation, heaping up: One effect of the strike was the accumulation of rubbish in the streets. 2 growth, increase, build-up: The accumulation of wealth has never proved a valid purpose in life. 3 heap, pile, mass, collection, hoard, store, stockpile, stock, aggregation; assemblage: Our gardener made sure that there was an ample accumulation of compost.
achieve v. 1 accomplish, carry out, execute, succeed in, complete, fulfil, bring off or about; realize, effect: When the fund reaches its goal, we shall have achieved our purpose. 2 accomplish, attain, reach, gain, get, acquire, win, obtain: She achieved her ends by cheating and conniving.
acquire v. get, obtain, gain, win, earn, procure, secure, come by or into; receive, come into possession of; buy, purchase: He acquired great wealth by marrying rich old dying widows.
actually adv. really, in reality, in fact, in actuality, in point of fact, in truth, absolutely, as a matter of fact, indeed, truly, literally: The interest rates actually charged by banks may vary from those quoted publicly.
address n. 1 speech, talk, discourse, oration, lecture; sermon: The Prime Minister's address to the nation was broadcast last night. 2 location, whereabouts: She couldn't write to me because she didn't have my address. --v. 3 speak or talk to; deliver or give a speech to; lecture: After the coup, the general addressed the crowd in the square. 4 greet, hail, accost, approach: She was addressing strangers in the street to ask their views on women's rights. 5 address oneself to. devote or direct or apply oneself to: After the holidays, I again addressed myself to studying for examinations.
admirable adj. wonderful, awe-inspiring, excellent, estimable, splendid, marvellous, superior, first-rate, first-class, of the first water, great, fine, Colloq top-drawer, ripsnorting, A-1, Brit smashing, magic: His performance in Harper's new play is admirable.
adopt v. 1 take (in), accept, take or accept as one's own: Carol and her husband have adopted two children. 2 take, take up or on or over, embrace, espouse; arrogate, appropriate: All Hugh's ideas are adopted from others - he's never had one of his own.
adventure n. 1 exploit, escapade, danger, peril; affair, undertaking, feat, deed; experience, incident, event, occurrence, happening, episode: We shared many wartime adventures. 2 speculation, hazard, chance, risk, venture, enterprise: I lost a fortune in some of his financial adventures. --v. 3 venture, hazard, risk, imperil, endanger, jeopardize, threaten: Would you adventure your pension money in such a scheme? 4 dare, wager, bet, gamble, stake, try one's luck, Brit punt: She adventured a whole week's salary on the pools.
advisory adj. 1 consultive, consultative, counselling, hortatory, monitory, admonitory, Technical parnetic(al): Our firm has been engaged in an advisory capacity on the privatization of the utility companies. --n. 2 bulletin, notice, warning, admonition, prediction: The Weather Office has issued a storm advisory for the weekend.
affected adj. 1 unnatural, artificial, specious, stilted, stiff, studied, awkward, non-natural, contrived, mannered: Dryden found Shakespeare's style stiff and affected. 2 pretended, simulated, hollow, assumed, feigned, fake, faked, false, counterfeit, insincere, spurious, sham, bogus, Colloq phoney or US also phony: The heir's affected grief concealed his secret exultation. 3 pretentious, pompous, high-sounding, mincing, niminy-piminy, Colloq la-di-da orlah-di-dah or la-de-da: Oliver's affected airs were enough to make his classmates detest him. 4 attacked, seized, afflicted, stricken, gripped, touched; diseased, laid hold of: Her affected lungs never quite recovered. 5 afflicted, moved, touched, stirred, distressed, troubled, upset, hurt; influenced, swayed, impressed, struck, played or worked or acted upon: Many affected theatre-goers enjoyed her performances.
afoul adv. afoul of. entangled with, in trouble with, in conflict with, at odds with: Barbara fell afoul of the new tax regulations.
aggressive adj. 1 combative, warlike, martial, belligerent, bellicose, pugnacious, quarrelsome, disputatious, litigious; hostile, unfriendly: The Germanic tribes were known to the Romans as aggressive and hardened warriors. 2 forward, assertive, forceful, bold, Colloq pushy: Dennis's aggressive nature may yet make him a good salesman.
agonizing adj. painful, distressful, distressing, harrowing, torturous, racking, excruciating, tortured, tormented: We went through an agonizing reappraisal of our policy on immigration.
ail v. 1 trouble, afflict, affect, bother, distress, upset, worry, make ill or sick, pain, hurt: I cannot imagine what ails him, and the doctor can find nothing wrong. 2 suffer, be or feel ill or poorly or unwell or indisposed, US be sick: Granny has been ailing lately.
alcoholic adj. 1 intoxicating, inebriating: His doctor has forbidden him any alcoholic beverage. --n. 2 drunkard, drunk, dipsomaniac, sot, toper, drinker, winebibber, serious or problem drinker, tippler, Colloq barfly, soak, Slang boozer, alchy or alkie or alky, dipso, stew, rummy, US and Canadian lush, booze-hound, wino: The community runs a centre for rehabilitating alcoholics.
allege v. declare, aver, state, assert, charge, affirm, avow, asseverate, depose, say: The guard alleged that he had caught the boy climbing in a basement window.
ally n. 1 comrade, confederate, collaborator, coadjutor; accessory, accomplice; associate, partner, friend: I had hoped to have you as an ally in my proposal for reorganization. The Allies finally defeated the Nazi war machine in 1945. --v. 2 league, combine, unite, join (up), team (up), side, band together, associate, affiliate, collaborate, confederate: In their attempt at a take-over of our company, the raiders have allied themselves with two banks. We shall ally the Romans to us and conquer the territory.
alternation n. rotation, succession; exchange, interchange: In a temperate climate there is the advantage of the alternation of the seasons.
amass v. accumulate, mass, pile or heap or rack up, collect, gather (together), assemble, aggregate, cumulate, stock or store up, hoard, set aside: How many points have you amassed? Owing to the bountiful harvest, the farmers amassed huge amounts of grain.
ambitious adj. 1 aspiring, hopeful; enthusiastic: My son, I am just as ambitious for you as you are for yourself. 2 energetic, enterprising, vigorous, zealous, enthusiastic, eager: We prefer ambitious young people to those who are seeking a sinecure. 3 greedy, avaricious, overzealous, overambitious, Colloq pushy, yuppy: Howard is a trifle too ambitious, expecting to be department head after only one year.
among prep. 1 amongst, amid, amidst, mid, in the midst or middle or centre of, surrounded by: Please take a seat among the people over there. We lay down among the flowers. 2 among, to each or all (of): The examination booklets were passed out among the students.
anachronism n. misdate, misdating, misapplication; antedate, antedating, prochronism; postdate, postdating, parachronism: The poster showing Cleopatra smoking a cigarette is an anachronism - a prochronism, to be specific.
angle v. angle for. fish for; look for, seek, be after, try for, hunt for: On holiday we went angling for perch. Fran is angling for compliments on her new dress.
announcement n. 1 declaration, pronouncement, proclamation, statement: Ladies and gentlemen, I wish to make an announcement. 2 notification, notice, word: We received an announcement of the wedding but no invitation. 3 commercial, advertisement, advert, ad, spot: The window was filled with announcements of houses for sale. 4 report, bulletin, communiqu, disclosure: An announcement has just been received from the fire-fighters at the scene.
anticipation n. 1 expectation, expectancy; hope: In anticipation of the arrival of Father Christmas, we hung up our stockings. 2 foreknowledge, precognition; intuition, presentiment, feeling; foreboding, apprehension: His anticipation of the solar eclipse by a week established him as the foremost scientist of his day.
apologetic adj. regretful, sorry, contrite, remorseful, penitent, rueful, repentant, conscience-stricken: The lad was most apologetic for having broken the window.
appear v. 1 come forth, become visible or manifest, put in an appearance, materialize, surface, emerge, rise, arise, come up, enter (into) the picture, show oneself, turn up, arrive, come, Colloq crop or show up; Slang show: Suddenly, a vision appeared before me. His wife appeared after an absence of ten years. 2 perform, act, play, take the role or part of: She has appeared as Roxanne in dozens of productions of Cyrano de Bergerac . 3 occur, happen, come up, be included, figure, arrive: That four-letter word does not appear in written form till the 20th century. 4 seem, be clear or evident or plain or manifest; look: It appears that the money was taken while the manager was at lunch. 5 be published, come out, become available: The next issue will appear in March.
appoint v. 1 fix, set, settle, determine, ordain, authorize, establish, destine, arrange, assign, allot, prescribe, decree: The time appointed for the execution has been delayed. 2 name, designate, nominate, elect; assign, delegate, commission, deputize; select, choose: I was delighted to have been appointed as chairman. 3 equip, fit out, furnish, decorate: They live comfortably in a well-appointed home in the suburbs.
approval n. sanction, approbation, blessing, consent, agreement, concurrence; endorsement, acceptance, imprimatur, affirmation, clat, confirmation, mandate, authorization; licence, leave, permission, rubber stamp, Colloq OK, okay, go-ahead, green light: I don't think that the plan will meet with the committee's approval. We gave our approval to proceed.
ardour n. eagerness, desire, zeal, fervency, burning desire, keenness, fervour, passion, heat, warmth; enthusiasm: Bernadette has supported the cause with great ardour.
aromatic adj. fragrant, spicy, perfumed, savoury, pungent: A most agreeable scent came from a bowl of aromatic herbs.
arrive v. 1 come, make one's appearance, appear, turn up, Colloq show up; Slang hit (town), blow in: She arrived only two minutes before the plane was to take off. 2 succeed, prosper, get ahead (in the world), reach the top, Colloq make it, make the grade, get somewhere, get there: Yuppies believe that once they own a fur coat and a Mercedes, they've arrived. 3 arrive at. come or get to, reach; attain: I think that Crumley has arrived at the stage in his career where he merits a promotion.
ashamed adj. embarrassed, abashed, humiliated, chagrined, mortified, blushing, shamefaced, sheepish, red-faced: I was ashamed to have to admit that it was I who had written the nasty letter.
assemble v. 1 convene, gather, call or bring or get together, convoke, summon, muster, marshal, rally, levy, round up, collect, congregate, forgather or foregather; meet: The forces were assembled along the waterfront. A small crowd assembled at the airport. 2 accumulate, gather, amass, collect, bring or group or lump together, compile, unite, join or draw together: The paintings were assembled from many sources. 3 construct, put together, erect, set up, fit or join or piece together, connect, fabricate, manufacture, make: The sculpture was assembled from so-called objets trouvs , or 'found' objects.
assistance n. help, aid, support, succour, backing, reinforcement, relief, benefit: Can you get up without my assistance? The scholarship fund offered financial assistance.
astonish v. amaze, surprise, shock, astound, stun, stagger, dumbfound or dumfound, bowl over, floor, stupefy, daze, Colloq flabbergast: She astonished the audience with her gymnastic skill. I was astonished when told my wife had given birth to quintuplets.
atrocity n. 1 enormity, wickedness, flagitiousness, iniquity, infamy, cruelty, heinousness, horror, evil, inhumanity, barbarity, savagery: The atrocity of the 'Final Solution' was a well-kept secret during the war. 2 evil, outrage, crime, villainy, offence: She could not listen when the prosecutor read a list of the atrocities perpetrated at the camp.
attendant adj. 1 waiting upon, accompanying, following; resultant, resulting, related, consequent, concomitant, depending, accessory: The circumstances attendant on your acceptance of the post are immaterial. --n. 2 escort, servant, menial, helper, usher or usherette, chaperon orchaperone; aide, subordinate, underling, assistant; follower, Derogatory lackey, flunkey, slave; Colloq US cohort: He dismissed his attendants and entered the church alone.
attribute n. 1 quality, character, characteristic, property, feature, trait, virtue: It is surprising how soon historical personages become invested with romantic attributes. --v. 2 ascribe, impute, assign, put down to, trace to, charge, credit: Theshrivelled arm of Richard the Third was attributed to witchcraft. To what do you attribute your interest in birds?
authoritarian adj. dictatorial, imperious, totalitarian, autocratic, arbitrary, absolute,dogmatic, domineering, strict, severe, unyielding, tyrannical, despotic, Colloq bossy: Why do people ever elect an authoritarian government?
avaricious adj. greedy, acquisitive, grasping, covetous, mercenary, selfish; penny-pinching, stingy, miserly, mean, parsimonious, tight-fisted, close-fisted, niggardly, penurious, tight: She fell into the clutches of an avaricious lawyer.
awesome adj. awe-inspiring, awful, imposing, amazing, wonderful, breathtaking, marvellous, wondrous, moving, stirring, affecting, overwhelming, formidable, daunting, dreadful, fearsome, fearful, frightening, horrifying, terrifying, terrible; unbelievable, incredible; alarming, shocking, stunning, stupefying, astounding, astonishing,: The eruption of Vesuvius in AD 67 must have been a truly awesome spectacle.
backer n. 1 supporter, advocate, promoter, sponsor, patron: She has always been an enthusiastic backer of adult education. 2 investor, benefactor or benefactress, supporter, underwriter, Colloq angel: The play's backers have made huge profits. 3 bettor, Brit punter: His backers are offering odds of 10 to 1.
bag n. 1 sack, shopping bag, reticule, string bag, Chiefly Brit carrier bag, Scots or dialect poke, pocket: They have helpers at the supermarket who will carry your bags to your car for you. 2 baggage, luggage, valise, satchel, grip, suitcase, overnight bag, carry-on luggage or bag, Gladstone bag, carpet-bag, portmanteau, toilet kit or case, sponge bag; briefcase, attach case, dispatch- or despatch-case: Boarding in London I flew to Buenos Aires while my bag went to Seoul. 3 purse, handbag, evening bag, wallet, Highland dress sporran: She reached into her bag and felt the gun that the Commander had given her. 4 crone, hag, beast, ogress, gorgon, nightmare, witch, harridan, Archaic beldam, Slang old bat, dog, monster, US two-bagger: Derek has been romancing some old bag for her money. 5 occupation, hobby, avocation, business, vocation, department, concern, affair, Colloq lookout, worry, Slang thing: Peter's bag at the moment is learning to play the violin. --v. 6 catch, trap, ensnare, snare, entrap, capture, land; kill, shoot: We bagged six pheasants and two partridges this morning.
banquet n. 1 feast, sumptuous repast or meal, ceremonial dinner, lavish dinner: At the end of the banquet, the guest of honour rose to make a few remarks. --v. 2 feast, indulge, wine and dine, regale, carouse: The winners of the trophy banqueted night after night on champagne and caviare.
bargain n. 1 agreement, contract, understanding, arrangement, covenant, pact, compact, settlement, transaction, deal: We made a bargain - I would provide the materials and he would do the work. 2 good deal, Colloq give-away, US steal: If you paid only 100 for this painting, you got a real bargain. --v. 3 negotiate, trade, haggle, barter, dicker, chaffer: We bargained far into the night, and finally came to an agreement after eight hours of discussion. 4 bargain for. expect, count on, anticipate, foresee, take into account, allow for, be prepared for: Even though the storm had been predicted, it was windier than we had bargained for.
basis n. 1 foundation, base, bottom, heart, footing, principle, underpinning; infrastructure: The three R's form the basis of elementary education. Do you think our society still rests on the basis of the family? 2 essence, main ingredient or constituent, point of departure: The basis of the discussion is that the hospitals are understaffed.
beacon n. signal, sign, fire, light, bonfire, flare, signal fire, Very light, rocket; lighthouse, pharos: Beacons blazed at the tops of the hills to spread the news of the victory. The drunkard's nose shone like a beacon.
beat v. 1 strike, pound, bash, smite, batter, pummel or pommel, belabour, pelt, clout, thrash, give (someone) a thrashing or beating, drub, manhandle, thump, whack, cane, scourge, whip, bludgeon, club, cudgel, fustigate; whip, flog, lash , Colloq clobber, wallop, give (someone) a once-over: At first he refused to tell them, but then they beat it out of him. 2 defeat, best, worst, win (out) over, vanquish, trounce, rout, outdo, subdue, overcome, overwhelm, pre-empt; surpass, conquer, crush, master, US beat out: Can they beat Manchester United for the cup? He first beat the Danes, then the Russians. 3 throb, pulsate, palpitate, pound, thump: I could feel my heart beating against my ribs. 4 Nautical tack: Close-hauled, the sloop was beating to windward against the howling gale. 5 hammer, forge, shape, form, fashion, make, mould: They shall beat their swords into ploughshares. 6 mix, whip, stir, blend: Beat two eggs, then add the flour and sugar. 7 tread, wear, trample: The hunters beat a path through the forest. 8 beat it. depart, leave, abscond, run off or away, Slang US take it on the lam, lam out of here, US hit the road: You'd better beat it before the cops come. 9 beat off. drive off or away, rout: We beat off our attackers, who fled into the forest. --n. 10 stroke, blow: The signal was to be three beats of a tin cup on the pipes. 11 rhythm, tempo, measure; pulse, throb, stress, pulsation: In boogie-woogie the beat is eight to the bar. 12 course, round, tour, route, circuit, run, path; area, bailiwick: In the old days, it was the bobby on the beat who prevented a lot of crime. As a reporter, my beat is the financial news. --adj. 13 dead beat, exhausted, spent, drained, worn out, weary, bone-tired, fatigued, fagged: I was really beat after completing the marathon.
bedlam n. pandemonium, uproar, hubbub, commotion, confusion, tumult, turmoil, furore or US furor, chaos; madhouse: The chancellor's announcement created instant bedlam in the Commons.
begrudge v. 1 resent, envy, grudge: She doesn't begrudge him his success. 2 give (be)grudgingly or unwillingly or reluctantly, deny, refuse: He begrudges her the slightest consideration.
behove v. US behoove; be required of, be incumbent on, be proper of, be fitting of or for, befit; be advisable for, be worthwhile for, be expeditious for or of, be advantageous to or for, be useful to or for, be beneficial to or for: It behoves you to be respectful to the chairman of the board.
belong v. 1 be a member (of), be affiliated or associated or connected (with), be attached or bound (to), be a part (of): Does he belong to the Green party? He didn't want to belong while his wife was a member. 2 have a (proper) place (in), be proper (to): Do you ever get the feeling that you don't belong here? 3 belong to. be owned by, be the property or possession of: That coat belongs to me.
bend n. 1 curve, turn, turning, corner; bow, angle, crook, hook, curvature, flexure: Go left at the bend in the road. If you put a bend in a wire hanger, you can fish out the obstruction. --v. 2 arch, bow, curve, crook: Soak the branch in water and it will bend easily. Stop bending my arm - it hurts! 3 bow; curtsy or curtsey; kowtow, salaam; kneel, genuflect: The cannibal bent down before a pile of skulls. 4 incline, channel, focus, direct, steer, set; fix: He bent his attention on more important matters. She bent her steps towards the cemetery. 5 submit, bow, yield, give way, be pliant or subservient or tractable: The cabinet bends to the will of the prime minister. 6 incline, turn, deflect: As you can see, the ray is bent by the lens.
benign adj. 1 kindly, gracious, good, kind, kind-hearted, benevolent, benignant, warm, warm-hearted, cordial, genial, congenial, tender, tender-hearted, compassionate, sympathetic, soft-hearted: It was Grandad's benign goodwill that kept us together in those hard times. 2 bland, gentle, mild, warm: A benign smile lit the headmaster's face as he announced the awards for scholastic achievement. 3 kind, favourable, fortunate; salutary, salubrious, mild, congenial, propitious: She recovered rapidly in that most benign climate. 4 non-fatal, non-malignant, non-virulent, curable, harmless: Fortunately, the biopsy showed that the tumour was benign.
beset v. encompass, surround, besiege; assail, attack, harass, harry, hector, bother, afflict, trouble: She was beset by all the problems involved in having a job and a family.
betrayal n. 1 treachery, treason, disloyalty, perfidy, traitorousness, faithlessness, bad faith, breach of faith: His delivery of the country into the hands of an invader was an outright act of betrayal. 2 revelation, divulging, disclosure, divulgence: People should not be led into betrayals of their secret opinions.
biased adj. biased, prejudiced, partial; warped, distorted, jaundiced: I don't want to listen to your biased opinions about women's rights.
bilious adj. ill-tempered, bad-tempered, ill-natured, peevish, testy, cross, petulant, tetchy, choleric, dyspeptic, angry, wrathful: The director was absolutely bilious when he heard we had lost the account.
bite v. 1 nip; chew, gnaw: That dog of yours bit a piece out of my ankle. 2 sting: She was bitten by a mosquito. --n. 3 mouthful, morsel, scrap, bit, piece, taste; snack, Slang nosh: The survivors hadn't had a bite of food for three days. Come round for a bite on Sunday evening before the concert. 4 sting: These mosquito bites itch horribly.
blackleg n. scab, strikebreaker: Despite the strike, the plant is being operated by blackleg labour.
blas adj. 1 bored, jaded, weary, unimpressed, ennuy: Her blas attitude does little to endear her at job interviews. 2 indifferent, cool, superior, supercilious, sophisticated, unmoved, nonchalant, emotionless, phlegmatic, apathetic, pococurante, carefree, light-hearted, insouciant: His blas behaviour hides his basic feelings of insecurity.
blend v. 1 mix, mingle, combine, meld, commingle, intermingle: The Latakia is blended with the Virginia to produce a fine smoking tobacco. 2 shade, grade, gradate, graduate, merge, coalesce, fuse, unite: Note how the pink sky and the tinted clouds blend in this Turner painting. --n. 3 mixture, mix, combination, mingling, meld, commingling, intermingling: His humour is a fine blend of the sardonic with slapstick.
blithe adj. 1 blissful, happy, cheerful, joyous, merry, light-hearted, well-pleased, delighted, gay, joyful, elated, jubilant: His spirit was blithe and his heart unquenchable. 2 happy-go-lucky, insouciant, heedless, carefree, unconcerned, blas, casual, detached, indifferent, uncaring, careless: She goes through life with a blithe disregard for the feelings of others.
blow v. 1 breathe, puff, exhale; expel: If the crystals turn green when you blow into the tube, it means that you've had too much to drink. Blow some air into the balloon. 2 waft, puff, whistle, whine, blast: An icy wind blew through the cracks in the windows. 3 Colloq bungle, botch, make a mess of, muff, mismanage, Colloq screw up, mess up, fluff, bugger up, Taboo fuck up: It was my last chance to win and I blew it. 4 Colloq spend, lavish, squander, waste, throw out or away: She blew hundreds on that dress and now she won't wear it. 5 short-circuit, burn out: All the fuses blew when I turned on the electric heater. 6 blow hot and cold. vacillate, hesitate, dither, Colloq shilly-shally: The sales manager has been blowing hot and cold over my proposal for a month now. 7 blow out. a extinguish: I blew out all the candles in one breath. The match blew out in the wind. b explode, burst: One of my tyres blew out on the way over here. c short-circuit, burn out: The lights blew out during the storm. 8 blow up. a become furious or angry or enraged, flare up, lose one's temper, Slang blow one's top or US also stack, flip one's lid: She really blew up when I said I was going to the pub. b explode, burst, shatter, Colloq bust; detonate, dynamite, destroy, blast: The bridge blew up with a roar. Demolition experts will blow up the dam. c enlarge, inflate, embroider, magnify, expand, exaggerate, overstate: The tabloid press has blown up the story out of all proportion. d enlarge, magnify, amplify, expand, increase: Can you blow up just this corner of the photograph? e inflate; distend, swell: We were busy blowing up balloons for the party. --n. 9 gale, storm, tempest, whirlwind, tornado, cyclone, hurricane, typhoon, north-easter, nor'easter: We can expect a big blow tonight - winds of gale force, they say.
blurt v. Usually, blurt out. burst out with, utter; reveal, disclose, give away, divulge, Colloq blab: She blurted out the name of her accomplice.
body n. 1 corpse, cadaver, remains, carcass, Slang stiff: A body has been dragged up from the lake. 2 trunk, torso: They found the body, but the arms, legs, and head were missing. 3 main part or portion, hull, fuselage: The body of the plane remained intact, though the wings and superstructure broke away. 4 substance, essentials, main part, essence, heart, centre, core: The body of the book is all right, but the index needs work. 5 majority, bulk, main part or portion, mass(es): Under Henry VIII the main body of the people were prosperous. 6 association, league, band, corps, confederation, fraternity, society; committee, council; group, assemblage, assembly, congress, company: It is not within the power of this body to do more than vote on the proposal. 7 richness, substance, firmness, consistency, solidity, thickness, density, fullness, viscosity, fullness: This wine has excellent body. Add a little cornflour to give the sauce more body.
bolster v. support, prop (up), brace, shore up, buttress, uphold, back (up), reinforce, aid, help, assist, further, advance: The miners cited a lack of safety measures to bolster their arguments.
bond n. 1 tie(s), shackles, chains, fetters, manacles, handcuffs, trammels, thongs, cord(s), rope(s); restraint(s), constraint(s), check(s), control(s), rein(s): The council is hampered by the bonds of the old regulations. 2 covenant, pact, contract, agreement, engagement, compact, treaty: To unite the party a bond of confederacy was formed. 3 connection, link, linkage, union, tie, relationship: The main bond between us was a shared love of the theatre. The bond between the veneer and the board should hold with a little more glue. --v. 4 cement, bind, hold together, stick, cohere: They use mortar to bond the bricks together.
boomerang v. rebound, recoil, backfire, miscarry, redound: His plan boomeranged.
booty n. plunder, gain, spoil(s), contraband, takings, loot, Slang swag, boodle, (hot) goods, take: The pirates fought over the booty seized from the Spanish galleon.
bosom n. 1 breast, chest, bust; Slang boobs, knockers, tits, titties, pair, jugs, Brit Bristols: The sex goddess's lack of talent was more than compensated for by her ample bosom. 2 midst, interior, heart, core, centre: She was welcomed into the bosom of the family as if she had been their own child. 3 soul, heart, heart of hearts, bowels, blood, Colloq gut: I know he loves me, I can feel it in my bosom. --adj. 4 close, intimate, dear, beloved, cherished, boon, special, confidential: We were once bosom companions.
bottomless adj. unfathomed, unfathomable, abyssal, abysmal, inexhaustible, unlimited, immeasurable, unplumbable: The bottomless ignorance of the man is incredible.
bounty n. 1 generosity, liberality, munificence, charitableness, philanthropy, charity, unselfishness, beneficence, goodness: The poor used to be dependent on the bounty of the local gentry. 2 gift, present, largesse, grant, subsidy, endowment, subvention: People should be given work and not live off the bounty of the state. 3 reward, award, premium, bonus, gratuity: In America they paid a bounty of 50 for every dead wolf.
box v. 1 fight, engage in fisticuffs, spar, battle: When he was in the army, he boxed for his regiment. 2 strike, buffet, punch, hit, Colloq slug, sock, whack, thwack, clout, belt, thump, lambaste, whomp: Every time she heard him swear, she'd box his ears. --n. 3 blow, buffet, punch, hit, strike, Colloq slug, sock, whack, thwack, clout, belt, thump, whomp: How would you like a box on the ear, you young rascal!
braggart n. boaster, bragger, braggadocio, windbag, peacock, show-off, Scaramouch or Scaramouche, Slang big-mouth, loud-mouth, gasbag: That braggart William Smith talks about himself incessantly.
brass n. effrontery, gall, nerve, temerity, impudence, insolence, rudeness, Colloq cheek, nerve: He had the brass to turn down a knighthood.
brazen adj. brassy, shameless, barefaced, brash, outspoken, forward, immodest, unashamed, audacious, candid, open, unabashed, brazen-faced; rude, impudent, impertinent, insolent, saucy, Colloq cheeky, fresh, US sassy: That's the last time I'll let that brazen hussy near my husband!
breathe v. 1 live, exist: She believes that there never breathed a wiser man than her father. 2 inhale and exhale, respire, suspire: He was breathing regularly. 3 exhale, expel, puff, blow: The banner depicts a dragon breathing fire. 4 whisper, murmur, hint (at), suggest, tell, speak, say: She told me not to breathe a word of it to anybody.
bric--brac n. bric-a-brac, curiosities, knick-knacks, collectables or collectibles, trinkets, gewgaws, gimcracks; bibelots, curios, objets d'art, objets de vertu: On Saturday she went to an antiques fair and bought still more bric--brac to clutter up the house.
brighten v. 1 illuminate, enliven, lighten, cheer up, liven up, Colloq perk up: Replacing those heavy draperies with thinner curtains ought to brighten the room. 2 shine, polish, burnish: The silver could use a bit of brightening up.
brittle adj. 1 fragile, frangible, breakable; friable: My fingernails become brittle in the cold and break easily. 2 frail, weak, delicate, sensitive, fragile, insecure: She might seem strong, but she has a very brittle nature and is easily upset.
broken-hearted adj. heart-broken, depressed, downhearted, dejected, devastated, crushed, overwhelmed, heartsick, downcast, upset; forlorn, sorrowful, disconsolate, inconsolable, grief-stricken, miserable, wretched, melancholy, heavy-hearted, sad, doleful, dolorous, woeful, woebegone, gloomy, morose, glum, cheerless, Colloq down: She was broken-hearted when her puppy was lost.
brother n. sibling; relation, relative, kin, kinsman; fellow, fellow-man, fellow-clansman, fellow-citizen, fellow-countryman, fellow-creature; associate, colleague, confrre, companion, Colloq pal, chum, Brit and Australian mate, US buddy: Some day, perhaps all men will regard each other as brothers.
brush n. 1 brushwood, shrubs, undergrowth, branches, scrub, brush, bracken, brambles, underbrush, underwood: It took us three days to clear the brush from around the house. 2 thicket, brake, copse, grove, boscage: The fox disappeared into the brush, which was too dense for the dogs to follow.
buckle n. 1 clasp, fastener, clip, fastening, hook, catch: The buckle broke on my belt and my trousers fell down. --v. 2 collapse, cave in, crumple, bend, warp, distort, twist, bulge: The support gave way and the entire wall buckled.
bulletin n. message, notice, communication, announcement, communiqu, dispatch or despatch, report, account, flash, news item, newsflash: And now, here's a bulletin from the centre court at Wimbledon.
buoy n. 1 (navigational or channel) mark or marker, float; nun (-buoy), can (-buoy), bell (buoy), gong (-buoy), siren, signal, mooring-buoy, spar-buoy, lollipop: Returning to port, always leave the red buoys to starboard. --v. 2 Often, buoy up. lift, raise, elevate, support, hearten, sustain, keep up: We sang songs to buoy up our spirits while the rescuers dug their way towards us.
burlesque n. 1 caricature, lampoon, spoof, parody, satire, mockery, travesty, Colloq take-off; (grotesque) imitation, vulgarization, exaggeration: In the mid-19th century, burlesques drove pantomimes off the stage. 2 US striptease, strip show, nudie or girlie show: The old comedians insist that burlesque acts were an art form, but the audience went just for the girls. --v. 3 satirize, take off, lampoon, spoof, parody, caricature, travesty: Cervantes burlesqued the old romances in Don Quixote . --adj. 4 satirical, derisive, mock-heroic, mock-pathetic: She sang a burlesque opera based on Hamlet, called 'Omelette'.
busy adj. 1 occupied, engaged, employed, involved: I can't talk to you now, I'm busy. 2 working, industrious, active, diligent; bustling, hectic, lively, hustling, energetic: Are you very busy at the office these days? The diamond district is certainly a busy place. 3 ornate, elaborate, detailed, complicated, complex, (over-)decorated, intricate, Baroque, Rococo: Some of the late Victorian architecture is far too busy for my taste. --v. 4 occupy, involve, employ, divert, absorb, engross: She has busied herself with charity work to get her mind off the tragedy.
buxom adj. 1 hearty, healthy, vigorous, lusty, attractive, comely, plump, Colloq hefty: Sylvia was a buxom serving-wench at the Bugle Horn. 2 busty, bosomy, chesty, well-endowed, big-busted: The centrefolds in this magazine usually show quite buxom women.
byword n. proverb, proverbial saying, parable, maxim, adage, motto, slogan, apophthegm or apothegm, aphorism, catchword, catch-phrase: My byword has always been, Honesty is the best policy.
cachet n. 1 stamp, feature, distinguishing mark, identification: The cachet of good taste is simplicity of design. 2 distinction, prominence, importance, prestige, dignity: Her new job doesn't pay much, but it has a certain cachet.
calamitous adj. distressful, dire, tragic, disastrous, destructive, awful, devastating, fatal, deadly, pernicious, cataclysmic, catastrophic, ruinous, dreadful, terrible: They seemed unaware of the calamitous consequences of what they were doing to the environment.
calibrate v. adjust, graduate; standardize: This balance has been dropped on the floor, and you'll have to calibrate it again.
camp n. 1 camping-ground, camp-ground, bivouac, encampment, camp-site; settlement; camping-site, Brit caravan site: The name 'Chester' derives from Latin castrum, meaning 'camp', for the city was originally the site of a Roman camp. Is there a camp where we can stay overnight? 2 faction, set, coterie, clique, group, party, body: On this issue, the politicians are divided into two camps. --v. 3 encamp, pitch camp, tent: Our family likes to go camping in the mountains during the summer. 4 lodge, bivouac, settle: The platoon camped by the river. 5 camp out. Slang crash: Mind if I camp out in your pad tonight?
candy n. sweet(s), bon-bon(s), sweetmeat(s), confectionery: Eating candy can be bad for your teeth.
capacity n. 1 volume, content, size, dimensions; room, space: What is the capacity of this bottle in litres? The car is of sufficient capacity to hold only four adults. 2 potential, ability, capability, competence, intelligence, wit, brain(s), talent, aptitude, acumen, understanding, sense, judgement, perspicacity, perceptiveness, perception, mother wit, intellect, genius, skill, gift, faculty, power, potential, Colloq chiefly US right stuff, the goods: They don't yet have the capacity to absorb advanced theory. 3 position, condition, character, place, post, role, job, office, duty, responsibility, province, sphere, function; Law competency, qualification: She has every right to sign cheques in her capacity as director.
captivate v. enthral or US enthrall, enslave, fascinate, hypnotize, entrance, beguile, charm, enamour, enchant, bewitch, enrapture, dazzle, infatuate, attract, allure, seduce, win: Her beauty captivated film-goers everywhere.
careen v. heel over, keel over; US loosely career, sway, tip, pitch, veer, swerve, lurch: We hauled out the boat, careened her, and proceeded to caulk her seams.
carnage n. slaughter, butchery, massacre, blood bath, holocaust, killing, Shoah, Churban or Hurban: The battle was fought with much carnage on both sides.
carte blanche n. licence, permission, sanction, free rein, authority, discretion: She was given carte blanche to spend the money any way she wished.
caste n. (social) class, rank, order, level, stratum, standing, position, station, status, estate: The women of her caste practised suttee.
categorical adj. direct, explicit, express, unconditional, firm, positive, unreserved, unrestricted, absolute, outright, downright, unequivocal, unambiguous, specific; emphatic, unqualified, authoritative, dogmatic, Technical apodeictic or apodictic: His denial was clear and categorical.
caution n. 1 warning, admonition, admonishment, caveat, monition, advice, counsel, injunction: A word of caution is needed before you go ahead. 2 wariness, prudence, care, vigilance, forethought, heed, watchfulness, alertness, circumspection, discretion: Drivers should exercise extra caution in bad weather. --v. 3 warn, admonish, forewarn, tip (off); advise, counsel: Some employees had to be cautioned about arriving on time.
celebrant n. officiant, official; priest: The celebrant at High Mass was the archbishop.
cell n. chamber, room, apartment, cubicle; stall: As a friar, he lived in a small, plain cell for most of his life.
certain adj. 1 determined, set, fixed, predetermined, decided, settled, firm, stable, invariable, established, standard, constant, unchanging, steady, unfluctuating, non-fluctuating, traditional: He agreed to pay a certain yearly rent. She met him there every day at a certain time. 2 sure, unerring, definite, dependable, trustworthy, unfailing, infallible, reliable, assured, guaranteed: How do you know that the dividend is certain? 3 sure, inevitable, inescapable, destined, predestined, ineluctable, inexorable, unavoidable, definite, firm; unchanging, changeless, infallible, permanent, Colloq on the cards, a sure thing, US in the cards: It is not always certain that justice will triumph. Nothing is certain but death and taxes. 4 indubitable, indisputable, undisputed, undoubted, sure, doubtless, unequivocal, incontestable, undeniable, incontrovertible, absolute, irrefutable, unquestionable, unquestioned, unarguable, valid: It is certain only that we exist, according to Descartes. 5 confident; assured, sure, positive, definite: I am certain that she did not steal the money. 6 specific, particular, definite; unnamed, unspecified, non-specified, non-specific: He gave us certain information which we now have reason to doubt.
chamber n. 1 assembly, body, legislature, judicature, house, congress, judiciary, senate, diet; consortium: She is entitled to sit in the Upper Chamber. 2 meeting-hall, reception room, assembly room: The council chamber was packed with people. 3 compartment, niche, nook, cavity: We hid the gold in a small chamber in the cave. 4 room, apartment; bedroom, bedchamber: On the first floor are the magnificent royal chambers.
chaos n. formlessness, disorder, confusion; pandemonium, bedlam, turmoil, tumult; entropy: The universe arose out of chaos. If you want to see chaos, look in any teenager's bedroom. There was chaos as the bank closed its doors and ceased trading.
charitable adj. 1 generous, liberal, bountiful, munificent, unselfish, open-handed, magnanimous, philanthropic, public-spirited, unsparing, eleemosynary: Despite her income, Irena has always been most charitable when it comes to worthwhile causes. 2 well-disposed, kindly, kind, beneficent, benevolent, well-wishing, lenient, tolerant, forgiving, indulgent, understanding, compassionate, humane, sympathetic, considerate, well-meaning, good: They took a charitable view of the matter and decided not to press charges.
chaste adj. 1 pure, virginal, virgin, celibate, abstinent, continent, virtuous, undefiled, stainless, unstained, unsullied, unblemished, decent, clean, good, wholesome, moral: Only a knight who was wholly chaste would find the Grail. 2 subdued, severe, restrained, unadorned, austere, unembellished, simple, pure, undecorated, clean: In some respects, modern architecture emulates the chaste style of the ancient Egyptians.
check v. 1 stop, arrest, stay, halt, obstruct, block, limit; retard, slow, brake, curb, hinder, hamper, impede, thwart: They are trying to check the spread of the disease in West Africa. 2 restrain, control, repress, stay, inhibit, contain, curb, restrict: The animal population is checked only by availability of food. 3 authenticate, verify, confirm, substantiate, validate, corroborate, check into, check out, check up on: Please check his story to make sure he's not lying. 4 enquire about or after or into, check into, check (up) on, examine, investigate, inspect, make sure of, verify, monitor, test, study, scrutinize: You'd best check the temperature in the kiln. 5 correspond, coincide, agree, jibe, tally, conform, check out, fit, mesh; compare: His alibi doesn't check with the witness's statement. 6 check in. arrive, report: We check in for work at 0800. 7 check in or into. register, sign in or on, enrol, log in: We checked into the hotel. 8 check into. investigate, check out, check up on, verify, check: The detective checked into the backgrounds of all applicants. 9 check off. tick (off), mark, check: Check off the names in red. 10 check out. a depart, leave; go: He checked out of the hotel and took a taxi to the airport. b investigate, research, explore, enquire into, look into or at or over, scrutinize, examine, inspect, probe, survey, check up on, check, check into, check over: You had best check out her references before hiring her. c pass, pass muster or scrutiny, meet approval, be verified, check: According to our records, his story checks out. d Slang cash in one's checks or chips, kick the bucket, croak: Sam checked out last week - heart attack, I think. 11 check over or out. review, verify, authenticate, check: Please check over my figures before I submit them to the accountant. 12 check up (on). a investigate, do research, probe, explore, check: I don't know her name, but I'll check up and let you know. b determine, discover, find out, look into, check: I want you to check up on where they eat lunch. --n. 13 stop, stopping, cease, surcease, hesitation, cessation, stoppage, interruption, break, pause, balk or baulk, discontinuity, discontinuation, discontinuance, suspension: The visitors continued to arrive without check, far into the night. 14 restraint, repression, inhibition, limitation, curb, restriction, control, constraint, hindrance, obstruction, impediment, damper: He keeps a good check on the foreman. This tax will serve as a check against free trade. 15 control, test, inspection, examination, scrutiny, verification, substantiation, authentication, confirmation, validation, corroboration: We do a thorough check on the quality of every product. 16 US tick, mark, dash, X: Place a check in the box alongside your choice. 17 token, receipt, counterfoil, stub; voucher, chit, certificate: Don't lose your baggage check. 18 chip, counter: Let's cash in our checks and go home. 19 Chiefly US bill, tab, charge(s): In the USA, people generally add 15 per cent to the check for a tip.
chic adj. 1 stylish, fashionable, la mode, modish, smart, tasteful, elegant; sophisticated; Colloq trendy: Susanna was always a chic dresser. --n. 2 style, fashion, good taste, tastefulness, elegance, stylishness, modishness: There is an air of chic about him that repels many men but attracts many women.
chill n. 1 coldness, cold, coolness, sharpness, nip: We put on our jackets to ward off the chill of the evening. 2 cold, flu, influenza, (la or the) grippe, ague, Technical coryza, Colloq (the) sniffles, sneezles and wheezles: Take off those wet clothes before you catch a chill. 3 coolness, iciness, frigidity, aloofness; unfriendliness, hostility: Mrs Marlow felt the chill in the stare of her husband's ex-wife. --adj. 4 cold, cool, numbing, chilling, chilly, raw, penetrating, icy, frigid, wintry, frosty, arctic, polar, glacial: A chill easterly wind made me shiver. 5 shivering, chilled (through), numb, numbed, numbing, benumbed: She kissed me with a lip more chill than stone. 6 cold, cold-blooded, aloof, indifferent, insensitive, unemotional, unsympathetic; chilly: The prison commandant viewed the corpses with chill detachment. --v. 7 cool, freeze, refrigerate, ice: The fruit tastes better if it has been chilled. 8 dampen, dispirit, depress, deject, dishearten, distress: The news of mother's illness chilled us all.
chivalry n. knight-errantry; honour, bravery, courage, courtesy, politeness, courtliness, gallantry, nobility, virtuousness, righteousness, justness, fairness, impartiality, equitableness: All the noble sentiments blended together constitute chivalry.
chronicle n. 1 record, history, diary, chronology, account, narrative, description, report, register, annal(s), archive: She has written a chronicle of the events leading up to the War of Jenkins' Ear. --v. 2 record, register, list, enter, archive, document, describe; tell, recount, narrate, report, relate, retail: In the Iliad Homer chronicled the legends of the Trojan War.
circuit n. 1 compass, circumference, perimeter, periphery, girth, border, boundary, edge, limit, ambit, margin, outline, confine(s), bound, pale: The circuit of the area amounts to 72 miles. 2 round, tour, ambit, circle, orbit, course, lap: The rider completed the circuit of the ranch, mending the fence as he went.
civil adj. 1 civilian, non-military, lay, laic, laical, secular: There is a distinction between civil law and canon law. 2 domestic, internal; public: The economic conditions have led to civil strife. 3 polite, courteous, respectful, well-mannered, proper, civilized, cordial, formal, courtly, urbane, polished, refined: They are civil enough, but I always have the feeling they really despise tourists.
clap v. 1 applaud; cheer, acclaim: Everyone clapped when the boxer climbed into the ring. 2 slap, strike, pat: He clapped me on the shoulder in the friendliest way. 3 put, place, slap, fling, toss, cast , Colloq stick: He had no sooner set foot in the town when he was clapped in jail. 4 impose, lay, apply: The magistrate clapped a severe fine on me for speeding. --n. 5 crack, slap, report, crash, bang, snap: There was a loud clap of thunder, making the house shake. clapper n. tongue: We attached a rope to the clapper of the bell.
claw n. 1 talon, nail: The cat had scratched her badly with its claws. --v. 2 scratch, tear, scrape, rake, slash: She clawed at his face to break his grip on her throat. 3 grapple, grab, catch, scrape, scrabble: He tried to climb up the embankment, clawing at the steep wall.
clerical adj. 1 ecclesiastical, churchly, pastoral, sacerdotal, priestly, hieratic, rabbinical, ministerial, monastic, apostolic, prelatic, papal, pontifical, episcopal, canonical: He was wearing his clerical vestments. 2 white-collar, office, professional, secretarial, stenographic, accounting, bookkeeping: He runs the shop and his wife has the clerical responsibilities.
climb v. 1 Also, climb up. mount, ascend, go up, scale, shin (up), clamber up, US shinny (up): In one of the games we had to climb a greased pole. Two Japanese teams have climbed Mount Everest. 2 creep, trail, twine; grow: The ivy has climbed all over the garden wall. 3 rise, arise, ascend, go up, mount; advance: Watch the smoke climb into the sky. 4 climb along. creep, edge, clamber, crawl, inch: The cat burglar climbed along the ledge till he reached the window. 5 climb down. a descend, go down: We shall need a rope to climb down from here. b Usually, climb down from. retreat (from), withdraw (from), back away (from), give up, abandon, renounce: He has climbed down from his earlier position regarding women in the priesthood. --n. 6 grade, incline, route, pitch; ascent; descent: It was a steep climb to Camp Four.
clod n. 1 lump, mass, gob, wad, hunk, chunk; piece of sod or turf; Colloq glob: A clod of earth was stuck between the spikes of my golf shoes. 2 idiot, fool, dolt, blockhead, simpleton, dunce, dope, oaf, Neanderthal, lout, ass, boor, clown, ninny, ninny-hammer, bumpkin, clodhopper, Slang vegetable, US and Canadian jerk: He felt a bit of a clod standing there with no idea which way to go.
clue n. 1 hint, suspicion, trace, intimation, suggestion, inkling, indication, pointer, lead, tip, tip-off, evidence, information, advice; key, answer, indicator: There is no clue pointing to anyone in particular. Any clue to the solution of the mystery disappeared in the fire. --v. 2 clue someone in or Brit also up. hint, suggest, imply, intimate, inform, advise, indicate: She clued us in as to who might have sent the letter.
coarse adj. 1 rough, uneven, scratchy, prickly, bristly; crude, rough-hewn, unfinished, unrefined: He has a three-day coarse growth of beard. The surface on the furniture is still too coarse. 2 rude, boorish, loutish, crude, ill-mannered, unpolished, rough, uncouth, impolite, uncivil, unrefined: Nigel's behaviour is coarse, and he spits when he talks. 3 rude, indecent, improper, indelicate, obscene, lewd, vulgar, gross, smutty, dirty, filthy, foul, offensive, lascivious, ribald, bawdy; foul-mouthed: Don't use that kind of coarse language with me. 4 inferior, low-quality, second-rate, shoddy, tawdry, trashy; kitschy: That shop stocks only the coarsest merchandise.
cog n. 1 tooth, gear-tooth, sprocket, ratchet: Stripping the gears means breaking the cogs off them. 2 underling, pawn, subordinate, nonentity, zero, cipher or cypher, nothing, nobody, small fry: He's only a small cog in the organization - we're after the big wheel himself.
coincidental adj. chance, lucky or unlucky, fortuitous, accidental, unexpected, unpredicted, unpredictable, unforeseen: It was entirely coincidental that we were on the same train.
collected adj. calm, serene, controlled, cool, sedate, composed, nonchalant, poised, unruffled, unperturbed, at ease, comfortable, tranquil, unexcited; imperturbable; confident: Considering what she's just gone through, Tanya seems quite collected.
combat n. 1 fight, encounter, engagement, duel, battle, conflict, war, warfare; skirmish: The two men were locked in single combat. 2 struggle, contest, strife, controversy, dispute, quarrel, disagreement, altercation, vendetta, feud: There was endless combat between father and son. 3 opposition, difference, confrontation: The combat between good and evil can never end. 4 action, fighting, battle, war: He was in combat on three occasions. Have you seen any combat? --v. 5 fight, (do) battle, war, clash, contend, duel, joust, wrestle, come to blows, spar, grapple (with): The soldiers are combating hand to hand in the trenches. 6 fight, struggle or strive against, contest, oppose, defy, enter the lists against, withstand: There was broad support for measures to combat crime and pollution.
comfortable adj. 1 at ease, easy, tranquil, serene, relaxed, contented, untroubled, undisturbed: After the operation, the nurses did everything they could to make me comfortable. 2 well off, carefree, insouciant, contented, satisfied; self-satisfied, complacent, smug: They don't have a lot of money, but they're comfortable enough. 3 likeable, easy, congenial, amiable, cordial, warm, pleasant, agreeable, enjoyable, relaxing: Daphne is a very comfortable sort of person to be with. 4 suitable, acceptable, adequate, satisfactory, reasonable: The radio was on very loud, so I turned down the volume to a more comfortable level.
committee n. council, board, cabinet, panel, body, commission: They have set up a committee to oversee park planning.
comparison n. 1 contrasting, contrast, juxtaposing, juxtaposition, balancing, balance, weighing: His comparison of the candidates is prejudiced. 2 match, similarity, resemblance, likeness, comparability, relation, relationship, commensurability, kinship, point of agreement or correspondence: There is no comparison between a racing car and a family car.
compile v. collect, put together, gather, accumulate, assemble, amass, collate, organize, order, systematize; anthologize, compose: He has compiled a large butterfly collection. Every year she compiles a volume of the best stories.
complicate v. 1 mix up, entangle, snarl, tangle, confound, muddle, confuse: You only complicate matters by bringing up the question of religion in a discussion of money. 2 make complicated or complex, make involved or intricate, make a shambles or mess or muddle of, mess up, Colloq screw up: The phenomena of tides and currents greatly complicate coastwise navigation.
compound v. 1 put together, combine, mix, concoct, compose, make (up), formulate, blend: They compound curry powder from different spices. 2 blend, merge, coalesce, combine, unite, fuse or US also fuze, come or go together: Sometimes two words compound to form one, as in 'ingrown', 'outgrow', and 'uptake'. 3 aggravate, intensify, exacerbate, heighten, augment, add to, worsen, increase; enhance, multiply: Demanding your money back now will only compound the problem. --adj. 4 intricate, complex, involved, complicated; composite, multiple, multiform, multifaceted, Technical parasynthetic, parathetic: The compound eye of the fly / Lets it see far better than I. A compound sentence is composed of two or more clauses joined by one or more coordinating conjunctions, express or understood. --n. 5 composite, blend, synthesis, combination, consolidation, Technical parasynthesis, parathesis; mixture, amalgam, alloy, merging, merger, mix: Table salt is a compound of the metallic element sodium and the gaseous element chlorine. 'Slithy' is a compound of 'slimy' and 'writhe'.
conceit n. 1 vanity, pride, egotism, self-esteem, self-admiration, self-love, narcissism, vainglory, amour propre; arrogance: His conceit is matched only by his incompetence. 2 fancy, whim, caprice: Some have a conceit their drink tastes better / In an outlandish cup than their own. 3 elaborate figure (of speech), affectation, strained or far-fetched metaphor: A conceit would be calling the waves 'nodding hearse-plumes'.
concise adj. brief, terse, laconic, compact, direct, succinct, epigrammatic, cogent, pithy, compendious, summary, epigrammatic, trenchant, compressed, condensed, short; shortened, abridged, curtailed, abbreviated: He gave a concise summary of the findings. This is a concise edition of the dictionary.
conference n. meeting, convention, symposium, congress, seminar, forum, colloquium; discussion, talk, colloquy, US bull session: In 1988, the conference was held in Budapest.
conform v. 1 comply (with), follow, observe, obey, respect, abide by, adapt or adjust (to): We agree to conform to the rules of the club. 2 accord (with), agree (with), concur (with), coincide (with), correspond (with), harmonize (with), square (with), match, tally (with), fit (in with), be consistent (with), be in accord or in accordance (with): Their behaviour did not conform with what is expected in such circles. The two plans do not conform.
conquer v. 1 overcome, vanquish, beat, defeat, subdue, crush, subjugate: The Moors conquered most of Spain. 2 capture, seize, win, gain, acquire, obtain; occupy, annex, overrun: They conquered the territory by force of arms. 3 overcome, triumph or prevail over, beat, surmount, master, win out (over): He has finally conquered the habit of biting his fingernails.
conservative adj. 1 reactionary, right, right-wing, rightist, Tory: In his conservative view, no change is ever for the better. 2 cautious, careful, prudent, moderate, temperate, middle-of-the-road, sober, stable; unprogressive, orthodox, traditional, conformist, hidebound, conventional, standard, fundamentalist, true-blue, dyed in the wool: The conservative approach would be to study the problem before making a change. The conservative members voted against electing certain members to the club. --n. 3 reactionary, rightist, right-winger, Tory, fundamentalist; moderate, middle-of-the-roader: He's a conservative and favours a classical education. conserve v. 1 keep, preserve, hold on to, save, spare, reserve: Conserve your energy for later, when we get near the top. 2 preserve, maintain, keep up, take care of: These buildings should be conserved for later generations.
console v. comfort, soothe, calm, assuage, solace, cheer (up): Ivan made an effort to console the grieving widow.
consultant n. 1 physician, doctor, specialist, expert: You ought to get the opinion of another consultant. 2 adviser or advisor, expert, counsellor or US counselor: Our financial consultant tells us how to handle the company funds.
contempt n. loathing, abhorrence, hatred, odium, hate; scorn, disdain, contumely, disgust: She has nothing but contempt for cowards.
continual adj. constant, incessant, perpetual, non-stop, persistent, uninterrupted, regular, steady, unbroken, unceasing, ceaseless, constant, eternal, unremitting, interminable, endless, unending; Loosely continuous: She has this continual ringing in her ears.
contribute v. 1 give, furnish, donate, bestow, grant, present, provide, supply: He contributed three paintings by Longchamp to the museum. They contributed generously to the restoration fund. 2 contribute to. add to, promote, advance, help, aid, support, forward, have a hand in, play a part or role in: They believe that poor parental supervision contributes to juvenile delinquency.
converge v. come or go together, meet, join, unite, merge, coincide; blend: The roads converge in the valley.
cool adj. 1 chilly, chill, chilling, cooling, unheated; chilled, cold, refreshing, fresh: It's rather cool outside today. I'd prefer some cool lemonade. 2 calm, serene, collected, level-headed, quiet, unexcited, unemotional, undisturbed, unexcitable, unruffled, unflappable, cool-headed, relaxed, controlled, under control, self-possessed, self-controlled, unperturbed, phlegmatic, composed, imperturbable: He remains cool even in a crisis. 3 dispassionate, cold, cold-blooded, emotionless, deliberate, cold-hearted, calculated, wilful, premeditated, purposeful, purposive: It was clearly the cool act of a professional criminal. 4 uninvolved, distant, remote, aloof, detached, removed, uninterested, unconcerned, unsympathetic, apathetic, cold, cold-hearted, cold-blooded: How can you be so cool where human lives are concerned? 5 lukewarm, distant, uncordial, unfriendly, unsociable, unapproachable, standoffish, forbidding, unwelcoming, cold, frigid: After the affair, she was distinctly cool towards him. 6 bold, audacious, brazen, overconfident, presumptuous, shameless, unabashed, impertinent, impudent, insolent: I cannot account for the cool way he insulted his host. --n. 7 coolness, chill, chilliness, Colloq coolth: I shall have a sherry to ward off the cool of the evening. 8 aplomb, poise, sedateness, control, self-control, composure, sang-froid: He really lost his cool when she told him he was a lousy driver. --v. 9 chill, refrigerate, ice: Cool the pudding before serving. 10 diminish, reduce, lessen, abate, moderate: Her interest quickly cooled when she discovered he was married.
core n. 1 centre, heart, middle, nucleus, inside(s): Remove the core of the apple first. 2 essence, marrow, heart, pith, gist, quintessence, sum and substance: The core of the problem is her refusal to consider any alternative. --v. 3 pit, seed: The pie might have tasted better if you'd cored the apples first.
corrupt adj. 1 dishonest, untrustworthy, dishonourable, underhand(ed), venal, Colloq crooked: He got off by bribing a corrupt judge. 2 debased, depraved, perverted, subverted, evil, wicked, degenerate, degraded: The inhabitants practised a corrupt form of Christianity. --v. 3 debase, pervert, subvert, degrade, deprave, warp: A funds manager could easily be corrupted by all that money. 4 adulterate, contaminate, pollute, taint, defile, infect, spoil, poison: Drainage from the site has corrupted the purity of the water. 5 bribe, suborn, buy (off): He thought he knew a juror who might be corrupted.
counsellor n. adviser or advisor, counsel, lawyer, Brit counsellor-at-law, barrister, US counselor, counselor-at-law, attorney: We have retained Vestley and Stock as our counsellors.
courage n. bravery, valour, boldness, intrepidity, gallantry, dauntlessness, daring, fearlessness, heroism, nerve, Colloq grit, guts, pluck, spunk, US moxie, sand, Slang Brit bottle: She had the courage to face the two of them alone.
cowardly adj. timid, fearful, frightened, afraid, scared, faint-hearted, timorous, chicken-hearted, chicken-livered, lily-livered, white-livered, craven, namby-pamby, dastardly, pusillanimous, vitelline, Slang yellow, yellow-bellied: The cowardly rascals ran from the battle.
crank n. 1 eccentric, character, oddity, Colloq nut; Slang Brit nutter, nutcase: Pay no attention to Jason, he's just a crank. 2 monomaniac, zealot, fanatic: The restaurant is patronized mainly by health-food cranks.
creation n. 1 beginning, origin, birth, start, inception, genesis, making, formation: The creation of the lake began with the damming of the stream. 2 the world, the universe, the cosmos: He was the most wicked man in the history of all creation.
crescent n. 1 demi-lune, semi-lune, lune, lunette: The moon's crescent hung low in the western sky. --adj. 2 crescent-shaped, demi-lune, semi-lune, biconcave, concavo-concave: For chopping, the chef uses a crescent blade that just fits into a curved wooden bowl.
crippled adj. 1 disabled, lame, handicapped, incapacitated; weakened, weak, debilitated: He takes care of his crippled mother. The crippled party platform succumbed to attack from the far left. 2 damaged, immobilized, inoperative: The crew stayed with the crippled vessel.
crouch v. bend (down), squat (down), hunker down, stoop (down): If you crouch down, no one will see you in the bushes.
crumble v. disintegrate, fragment, break apart, break up, shiver, come to pieces: Acid rain has caused the stone faade to crumble. In the face of the attack, his resolve crumbled.
cuddle v. 1 snuggle up (to), nestle or huddle (against): She cuddled the baby closer to her. 2 caress, embrace, fondle, hug, pet, bill and coo, make love (to), Colloq neck, smooch, Australian and New Zealand smoodge or smooge, Slang US make out (with), watch the submarine races: The couple were cuddling in the back seat. --n. 3 hug, embrace, snuggle: Give us a cuddle, Janie.
curiosity n. 1 inquisitiveness, interest: His insatiable curiosity next led him to study astronomy. 2 snooping, prying, peeping, intrusiveness, meddlesomeness, interference, Colloq nosiness, Nosy Parkerism: Curiosity killed the cat. 3 curio, oddity, rarity, conversation piece, objet de virtu or vertu, objet d'art, found object; bric--brac or bric-a-brac, knick-knack, bauble, trinket, gewgaw: The shop sells curiosities, like goblets made from ostrich eggs. In those days, every house had a curiosity cabinet.
custody n. 1 care, custodianship, safe keeping, protection, charge, guardianship, keeping: She was granted custody of the children. 2 imprisonment, detention, incarceration, confinement: The police took three troublemakers into custody.
cycle n. 1 round, rotation, circle, course; series, sequence, run, succession, pattern: We must learn to break the continuous cycles of war and peace. --v. 2 recur, return, rotate, recycle, circle: The water from the fountain is cycled back to the reservoir.
damage n. 1 harm, injury, hurt, impairment, mutilation, destruction, devastation: Fortunately, there was little damage from the storm. 2 expense, price, cost; bill, invoice, US check: At the restaurant, the damage came to 50. 3 damages. compensation, reparation, indemnity: We won the suit and were awarded damages of 10,000 for defamation of character. --v. 4 harm, hurt, injure; wound; mutilate, disfigure, mar, deface; wreck, ruin, spoil, impair: Although the car was badly damaged, the passengers escaped unharmed. Will this news damage your chances of a promotion?
dangerous adj. 1 risky, perilous, hazardous, unsafe, precarious, rickety, Colloq chancy, iffy: Rock-climbing is very dangerous. 2 threatening, menacing, harmful, treacherous: He is a dangerous criminal, wanted for murder.
dark adj. 1 unlit, unlighted, unilluminated, ill-lighted, ill-lit, sunless; black, Stygian, pitch-dark, inky, jet-black: We cowered in a recess in the dark cave. 2 dim, murky, tenebrous, shady, shadowy: I could scarcely see ahead of me in the dark forest. 3 gloomy, dismal, dreary, dull, drab, subfuscous, subfusc, bleak, cheerless, mournful, dour, pessimistic, sombre, doleful, joyless, grim, sad, melancholy, sorrowful: Why do you always look at the dark side of things? 4 evil, wicked, vile, base, foul, iniquitous, nefarious, black-hearted, villainous, sinister, satanic, devilish, hellish: Nostradamus predicted that dark forces would overrun the world. 5 murky, overcast, cloudy, threatening, black, dusky, louring or lowering; foggy, misty; US glowering: Another dark day on the moor and I thought I'd go mad. 6 mysterious, deep, profound, incomprehensible, enigmatic, puzzling, impenetrable, unfathomable, abstruse, recondite, arcane, obscure: She took her dark secret to the grave. 7 hidden, concealed, secret, occult, mystic(al), cryptic: The true reason for his leaving was always kept dark in the family. 8 brunette; black, swarthy, brown; (sun)tanned, Old-fashioned swart: One is fair with dark hair, the other has dark skin. 9 ignorant, unenlightened, benighted: Our culture passed through a dark phase before the Renaissance. --n. 10 night, night-time, nightfall: We waited till dark to make good our escape. 11 darkness, blackness, gloom, gloominess, murk, murkiness: At fifty, isn't he a bit old to be afraid of the dark? 12 obscurity, ignorance: She was always kept in the dark about his true identity.
dawdle v. linger, loiter, straggle, delay, procrastinate, dally, lounge, laze, idle, lag, lie about, waste time, Colloq dilly-dally, shilly-shally: We have to catch the next train, so stop dawdling.
dead adj. 1 deceased, defunct, extinct, gone, departed, late, lifeless, no more, Colloq done for, Slang Brit gone for a burton: Both his parents are dead, and his only brother lives in Australia. Lycidas is dead, dead ere his prime. 2 insensate, insensible, numb, paralysed, benumbed, unfeeling: After the accident, my left thumb was completely dead. 3 insensible, unconscious, out, dead to the world, deathlike, deathly: At the news of her son, she fell in a dead faint. 4 insensitive, unemotional, unfeeling, emotionless, apathetic, lukewarm, cool, cold, frigid, unresponsive, unsympathetic, indifferent, unconcerned, uninterested; numb, wooden, callous, hardened, impervious, inured, inert: He has always been dead to others' problems. 5 out, smothered, extinguished: The fire is dead. 6 inanimate, lifeless, inert, inorganic: Dead stones speak volumes to the geologist. 7 extinct, obsolete, perished, past, outmoded, disused, expired, pass: Latin is a dead language. 8 barren, unfruitful, infertile, unproductive: That area off the coast is dead as far as fishing goes. 9 tired (out), exhausted, worn out, fatigued, tired out, spent, collapsing, in a state of collapse, Slang bushed, beat, Brit knackered, US and Canadian pooped: We were completely dead after the hike into town. 10 dull, lustreless, flat, neutral, vapid, empty, bland, colourless, grey, beige, dun: The walls of the prison were painted a dead white. 11 stagnant, motionless, still, standing, static, inert, unmoving, inactive, quiet, calm: There were small pools of dead water covered with a green slime. Without a breath of air stirring, the boat was dead in the water. 12 boring, dull, tedious, tiresome, monotonous, prosaic, uninteresting, run-of-the-mill, ordinary, commonplace, dry, insipid, bland, flat, two-dimensional, lifeless, stiff, rigid, stony: The play was bad, the performance dead. 13 dull, muffled, deadened, anechoic, unresounding, non-resonant: One room in the laboratory was built to be dead to all sound. 14 complete, entire, total, absolute, downright, thorough, through and through, utter, all-out, out-and-out, unqualified, unrelieved, unbroken, categorical, outright: My investment in the anti-gravity pill has so far been a dead loss. 15 profound, deep: I fell into a dead sleep. 16 sudden, abrupt, complete, full: The train came to a dead stop. 17 certain, sure, unerring, exact, precise, accurate, crack: According to the records, Calamity Jane was a dead shot. --adv. 18 completely, entirely, absolutely, totally, utterly, categorically, thoroughly, unconditionally, unqualifiedly: You are dead right about Pontefract. 19 completely, entirely, absolutely, totally; abruptly, suddenly: He stopped dead in his tracks and stared at me. 20 directly, exactly, precisely: An enormous maelstrom lay dead ahead of the fragile craft. --n. 21 depth(s), extreme, midst, middle: She used to visit his room in the dead of night.
dear adj. 1 beloved, loved, adored, darling, precious, cherished, prized, valued, treasured, favoured, favourite, pet, esteemed, admired, venerated, honoured: He was my nearest and dearest friend. 2 expensive, costly, high-priced, highly priced, Colloq pricey: Tomatoes are much too dear at this time of the year. --n. 3 darling, sweetheart, beloved, love, true-love, sweet, honey, precious, pet, favourite, treasure, precious, Colloq sweetie, sweetie-pie, Slang baby: My dear, I hope we'll be together always. --adv. 4 dearly; at great cost or expense, at a high or excessive price: That little error will cost you dear, my friend.
debonair adj. 1 suave, soign(e), elegant, urbane, refined, dapper, genteel, well-bred, courteous, civil, mannerly, gracious, polite, affable, obliging, pleasant, Colloq smooth: Despite his vicious temper, he was most debonair in company. 2 carefree, insouciant, gay, nonchalant, light-hearted, dashing, charming, cheerful, buoyant, jaunty, sprightly: Being handsome and debonair, he was much sought after by hostesses.
decent adj. 1 becoming, suitable, appropriate, proper, seemly, fitting: Despite the life she led, the woman should have a decent burial. 2 seemly, decorous, tasteful, dignified, mannerly, nice, clean, respectable, polite, modest, presentable, acceptable: Hereafter, you will use only decent language when speaking to me! 3 adequate, acceptable, passable, fair, competent, mediocre, middling, fair to middling, moderate, respectable, not bad, ordinary, so so, not outstanding, unimpressive, average, neither here nor there, all right, reasonable, tolerable, satisfactory, good enough, Colloq OK or okay: Sales in the first quarter were decent but hardly outstanding. 4 courteous, proper, right, fair, honest, honourable, friendly, considerate, gracious, nice, thoughtful, obliging, kind, generous, accommodating: You can count on David to do the decent thing. 5 chaste, pure, virtuous, modest, well-bred, decorous, well brought up, nice, respectable: Caroline is a decent girl, but no great brain or beauty.
declare v. 1 assert, say, offer, submit, affirm, state, aver, asseverate, avow, avouch, profess, protest, swear, claim, proclaim; confirm, certify, ratify: I solemnly declare that the testimony I am to give is true, so help me God. 2 announce, make known, pronounce, decree, rule, proclaim, herald, promulgate, publish, broadcast, trumpet (forth): Robert has declared his intention to make Marianne his wife.
decrease v. 1 diminish, reduce, decline, lessen, lower, abate, fall off, shrink, shrivel (up), contract, dwindle, ebb, subside, wane, taper off, de-escalate, slacken, let up, ease (off or up), curtail, cut (down or back), Colloq run out of steam, US run out of gas: Demand for tickets to rock concerts has decreased over the years. The number of applicants for work is decreasing. --n. 2 diminution, reduction, decline, lessening, lowering, abatement, falling off, shrinking, shrivelling, contraction, decrement, dwindling, ebb, subsidence, tapering off, wane, de-escalation, slackening, easing (off or up), curtailment, cut, cut-back: There has been no noticeable decrease in the price of houses in the south-east. Have you noticed the decrease in arrests for dangerous driving?
deduction n. 1 subtraction, diminution, decrease, reduction, withdrawal, removal, abstraction: After deductions for expenses, you'll be left with nothing. 2 conclusion, inference, finding, reasoning, result: After considering the evidence, my deduction is that the butler didn't do it.
defecate v. void (excrement), move the bowels, excrete, eliminate, evacuate (the bowels), have a (bowel) movement or bm, open the bowels, relieve oneself, Babytalk do number two , Euphemistic go to the men's or ladies' (room), go to the toilet or bathroom or lavatory, excuse (oneself), wash (one's) hands, go to the bathroom, go to the powder-room; Mincing go to the little boys' or girls' room; Colloq Brit spend a penny, Colloq Brit go to the loo, pass a motion, Taboo slang (take a) crap or shit: The first symptoms of bowel disease are problems when defecating.
defer v. Often, defer to. give in (to), give ground or way (to), yield (to), submit (to), bow (to), capitulate (to), cede (to), accede (to), acquiesce (to); comply (with), agree (to): I'll defer to your decision in the matter.
definition n. 1 delineation, delimitation, demarcation, outlining; acutance, resolution, distinctness, clarity, sharpness, focus, precision: The definition at the edge of the photograph is fuzzy. 2 description, explanation, explication, clarification, statement (of meaning), sense, meaning: How many definitions are there for the word 'good'?
degenerate adj. 1 debased, degraded, corrupt, corrupted, vitiated, decadent, depraved, reprobate, dissolute, ignoble, base, low, inferior, vile: He was a degenerate descendant of a once noble lineage. Ben sank into the depths of a degenerate existence after Penelope left him. --v. 2 decline, deteriorate, decay, sink, worsen; backslide, regress, retrogress, weaken, go to the dogs, go to rack and ruin, Colloq go to pot: He felt that art had degenerated since the days of Rembrandt. --n. 3 reprobate, debauchee, wastrel, profligate, rake, rakehell, rou; pervert, deviate: The detective said that only a degenerate could have committed such a crime. degradation n. 1 degeneracy, degeneration, deterioration, corruptness, corruption, vitiation, baseness, depravity, turpitude: History records the moral degradation of a whole society. 2 disrepute, discredit, shame, humiliation, ignominy, dishonour, disgrace, abasement, debasement: He had to face the degradation of an accusation of child molestation.
delectation n. delight, enjoyment, amusement, entertainment, diversion, pleasure, satisfaction: For your delectation, Le Moulin Rouge presents La Goulue!
delight v. 1 please, gratify, satisfy, gladden, cheer, tickle, amuse, entertain, divert, excite, thrill, captivate, entrance, fascinate: We were delighted to hear the Mighty Allen Art Players once again. 2 delight in. enjoy, appreciate, like, relish (in), savour, revel in, glory in; love, adore; Colloq get a kick from or out of; Slang get off on: She delights in any kind of jazz. --n. 3 pleasure, gratification, joy, satisfaction, enjoyment, delectation; bliss, ecstasy, rapture: She takes great delight in playing practical jokes on her guests. In his dreams he visited the garden of earthly delights.
demand v. 1 require, order, bid, call (for); insist, command: I demand that you retract that remark! She demanded to know where he was going. 2 claim, ask (for), require, insist on; exact: They had paid for tickets and demanded entrance. 3 require, call for, need, want, necessitate, cry out for: This superb dish demands an excellent claret. 4 ask (for), inquire or enquire, request; requisition: We demanded help from the police. --n. 5 request, bid, behest, requisition, order, insistence; outcry: Our demand for service went unheeded. 6 want, need, requirement, desire; market (demand), marketability; consumer or customer acceptance: The demand for our products is low at the moment. 7 in demand. wanted, needed, requested, coveted, popular, sought after, desired, desirable, Brit in request, US on request: Bright graduates are always in demand. 8 on demand. on call, on request, on presentation, when requested or required; at once, immediately, without delay: These notes are payable on demand.
demonstrative adj. 1 open, unrestrained, unconstrained, unreserved, expansive, effusive, emotional, warm, tender, affectionate, loving: Pat is quite demonstrative, often causing me to blush. 2 illustrative, indicative, representative, probative, evidential; provable, evident: Her point was proved by several demonstrative arguments. The hostility of these few is demonstrative of what to expect of the entire group.
deny v. 1 contradict, gainsay, refute, controvert, disaffirm, disclaim, confute, negate, dispute: She denies ever having met the defendant. 2 reject, refuse, withhold, forbid, turn down, decline, disallow; recall, revoke, recant: He asserts that his right to counsel was denied. 3 disavow, repudiate, renounce, disown, forswear, disclaim: The witch-doctor demanded sacrifices, saying that the angry gods would not be denied.
depress v. 1 deject, dispirit, oppress, sadden, grieve, cast down, dishearten, discourage, dampen, cast a gloom or pall over, burden, weigh down: He's very depressed right now because he failed to get a promotion. 2 weaken, dull, debilitate, enervate, sap; depreciate, cheapen, devalue, devaluate; diminish, lower, bring down, reduce: The news about a new oil field depressed the market today. 3 press (down), push (down) (on), lower: If the pressure gets too high, just depress this lever.
deride v. mock, ridicule, scoff (at), jeer (at), laugh (at), make fun or sport (of), tease, taunt, twit, poke fun (at), make a laughing-stock (of), sneer (at), scorn, flout, disdain, pooh-pooh, belittle, diminish, disparage, laugh off, Brit rally, Colloq knock, Brit take the mickey or micky out of: His classmates had always derided his attempts at getting anywhere with the girls.
descendant n. offspring, progeny, issue, heir, posterity, family; child, son, daughter, grandchild, scion; offshoot: They claim to be descendants of Tsar Nicholas.
deserve v. merit, earn, be entitled to, be worthy of, rate, warrant, justify: You ought to be nicer to him - he really doesn't deserve such unkind treatment.
desire v. 1 crave, want, fancy, covet, wish for, hope for, long or yearn for, pine or sigh for, hanker after, have an eye or taste for, hunger or thirst for or after, die for, have one's heart set on, give one's eye-teeth for, Colloq have a yen for, Slang US have the hots for: I desire nothing but your happiness. He desired her more than anything else in the world. 2 ask for, request, order, demand, solicit, importune, summon, require: Do you desire anything further, sir? --n. 3 longing, craving, yearning, hankering, hunger, thirst, appetite; passion, lust, libido, lustfulness, concupiscence, lecherousness, lechery, lasciviousness, salaciousness, prurience, Slang hot pants, US the hots; Colloq yen: He felt desire rising in him like a fever. 4 wish, request, urge, requirement, order, requisition, demand, desideratum; appeal, entreaty, petition: He fulfils her every desire.
despise v. disdain, scorn, look down on or upon, be contemptuous of, sneer at, spurn, contemn; hate, loathe, detest, abhor: She despised her servants and treated them badly. He despised anyone who had not been to university.
destine v. 1 fate, predetermine, predestine, ordain, foreordain, preordain; doom: His only ambition was to be a successful farmer, but the gods destined him for greater things. 2 design, intend, mean, devote, assign, appoint, designate, purpose, mark, earmark, set aside: He beheld the chariot destined to carry him heavenwards.
detach v. separate, uncouple, part, disjoin, disengage, disunite, disconnect, disentangle, free, unfasten, undo, cut off, remove: She carefully detached the printer lead from the back of the computer.
deter v. dissuade, discourage, inhibit, intimidate, daunt, frighten off or from or away, scare off or from; prevent, stop, obstruct, check, hinder, impede: I was deterred from entering by three large dogs. Regular spraying of plants helps to deter aphid infestation.
detour n. 1 diversion, deviation, circuitous route or way, roundabout way, bypass: The detour took us five miles out of our way. --v. 2 deviate, turn (away) from, divert, bypass: I detoured from the main road and took a short cut.
deviant adj. 1 deviating, divergent, different, abnormal, strange, uncommon, unusual, odd, peculiar, curious, aberrant, eccentric, idiosyncratic, deviate, queer, quirky, weird, bizarre, offbeat, singular, Slang kinky, freaky, Chiefly Brit bent: They have been observing his deviant behaviour for some time. 2 See homosexual, 2, below. --n. 3 See homosexual, 1, below.
devote v. 1 apply, appropriate, assign, allot, commit, allocate, set aside or apart, put away or aside, dedicate, consecrate: Each of the chapels was devoted to a separate sect. 2 apply, pledge, dedicate, commit, give up: She has devoted her life to helping others.
diagnose v. identify, name, determine, recognize, distinguish, pinpoint, interpret; analyse: The doctor diagnosed the symptoms as those of rheumatoid arthritis.
dictator n. autocrat, absolute ruler or monarch, despot, overlord, oppressor, tsar or czar, tyrant, Fuehrer or Fhrer: Among monarchs, Henry VIII certainly could have been characterized as a dictator.
different adj. 1 unlike, unalike, dissimilar, conflicting; contrary, discrete, contrastive, contrasting, disparate, divergent, diverse, distinct, opposite, separate, distinguishable; another or other: We both enjoy boating but in different ways. When modelling, she assumes a different pose every few seconds. 2 unique, unusual, peculiar, odd, singular, particular, distinctive, personal, extraordinary, special, remarkable, bizarre, rare, weird, strange, unconventional, original, out of the ordinary; new, novel, exceptional, unheard-of: And now, for something completely different, we present a juggling trick cyclist. 3 assorted, manifold, multifarious, numerous, abundant, sundry, various, varied, divers, many, several: Different kinds of breakfast cereal are now available.
dignify v. distinguish, ennoble, elevate, raise, exalt, glorify, upraise, lift, uplift, enhance, improve, better, upgrade: The critic wrote that he wouldn't deign to dignify the book by calling it a novel.
dilute v. water (down), thin (down or out), cut, weaken, doctor, adulterate; mitigate, lessen, diminish, decrease: For the table, wine was often diluted with water. He dilutes his argument by citing irrelevancies.
diplomacy n. 1 tact, tactfulness, adroitness, discretion: She was able to get rid of that rude boor with her customary diplomacy. 2 statecraft, statesmanship, negotiation; intrigue, Machiavellianism, machination, manoeuvring or maneuvering: Cardinal Richelieu is considered the founder of modern diplomacy.
disability n. 1 handicap, impairment, defect, infirmity, disablement: James is unable to play tennis owing to his disability. 2 inability, incapacity, unfitness, impotence, powerlessness, helplessness: The teacher helped her to overcome her disability.
disappointed adj. 1 frustrated, unsatisfied, dissatisfied, disillusioned, disenchanted, discouraged, downhearted, disheartened, downcast, saddened, unhappy, dejected, discontented, let down: There will be a lot of disappointed children at Christmas this year. 2 foiled, thwarted, balked, defeated, undone, failed, let down: Though she campaigned energetically, Theodora was among the disappointed candidates.
disband v. disperse, disorganize, scatter, break up, dissolve, demobilize, deactivate, retire: After the war, the special spy force was disbanded.
discomfit v. 1 embarrass, abash, disconcert, disturb, confuse, make uneasy or uncomfortable, discompose, fluster, ruffle, confound, perturb, upset, worry, unsettle, unnerve, Colloq rattle, US faze, discombobulate: Being short, she was discomfited by references to her height. 2 frustrate, foil, thwart, baffle, check, defeat, trump, outdo, outwit, overcome: Discomfited by her violent reaction, her attacker fled.
discontinue v. cease, break off, give up, stop, terminate, put an end to, quit, leave off, drop; interrupt, suspend: Please discontinue newspaper delivery until further notice.
discredit v. 1 detract, disparage, defame, dishonour, disgrace, degrade, bring into disfavour or disrepute, deprecate, demean, lower, devalue, depreciate, devaluate, belittle, diminish, reduce; slur, slander, vilify, calumniate, sully, smear, blacken, taint, tarnish, besmirch, smirch, stigmatize, asperse, malign, libel: Both of them were thoroughly discredited by the scandal. 2 disbelieve, deny, dispute, doubt, question, raise doubts about, distrust, mistrust, give no credit or credence to: As he's a known liar, you can discredit whatever he tells you. 3 disprove, reject, refute, invalidate; mock, ridicule: The phlogiston theory is generally discredited by most modern chemists. --n. 4 dishonour, degradation, disfavour, disrepute, ill repute, disgrace, ignominy, infamy, odium, stigma, shame, smear, slur, scandal, obloquy, opprobrium, humiliation: Her performance has brought discredit to all female saxophonists. 5 damage, harm, reflection, slur, aspersion, slander, defamation, blot, brand, tarnish, blemish, taint: The discredit to her reputation is irreparable. 6 doubt, scepticism, dubiousness, doubtfulness, qualm, scruple, question, incredulity, suspicion, distrust, mistrust: The new evidence throws discredit on the validity of the previous testimony.
discursive adj. wandering, meandering, digressing, digressive, rambling, circuitous, roundabout, diffuse, long-winded, verbose, wordy, prolix, windy: Frobisher was again boring everyone with his discursive description of life in an igloo.
disenchanted adj. disillusioned, disabused, undeceived, disappointed; blas, indifferent, jaundiced, sour(ed), cynical: I'm afraid she's now thoroughly disenchanted with her job.
disgust v. 1 sicken, offend, nauseate, repel, revolt, put off, outrage, appal, Slang gross out: His patronizing attitude disgusts those who work for him. --n. 2 revulsion, nausea, sickness, repugnance, fulsomeness, outrage, distaste, aversion: One look at the food filled me with disgust. 3 loathing, contempt, hatred, abhorrence, odium, animus, animosity, enmity, antagonism, antipathy, dislike: Some feel disgust at the thought of eating insects.
disinfect v. clean, cleanse, purify, purge, sanitize, fumigate, decontaminate, sterilize: The bedding will have to be disinfected before it can be used.
dismal adj. depressing, gloomy, cheerless, melancholy, sombre, dreary, sad, bleak, funereal, lugubrious, forlorn, morose, solemn, dark, grim, wretched, woebegone, woeful, black, blue, joyless, doleful, dolorous, unhappy, miserable, lowering; pessimistic: She was alone, alone on the dismal moor. The prospects for the company looked very dismal.
disorientated n. confused, bewildered, lost, adrift, (all) at sea, mixed up, uncertain, unsure, insecure, disoriented, Colloq out of it, in a fog, Brit off (the) beam, US off the beam: I left by another door and was completely disorientated for a moment.
displace v. 1 move, transfer, shift, relocate, dislocate, misplace, disturb, disarrange, disorder, unsettle: The entire population of the village was displaced when the dam was built. 2 expel, unseat, eject, evict, exile, banish, depose, remove, oust, dismiss, discharge, cashier, Colloq fire, kick or throw out, Brit sack: The voters displaced the corrupt council. 3 take the place of, supplant, replace, supersede, succeed: Watching television has displaced reading in many modern homes.
disproportion n. inequality, unevenness, disparity, imbalance, asymmetry, irregularity, lopsidedness, dissimilarity, inconsistency, incongruity: Now that we're older, there isn't such a disproportion in our ages.
disreputable adj. 1 low, base, abject, contemptuous, unrespectable, disrespectable, untrustworthy, discreditable, dishonourable, disgraceful, reprehensible, shameful, despicable, ignominious, bad, wicked, heinous, vicious, iniquitous, vile, opprobrious, scandalous, louche, questionable, dubious, Colloq shady: She keeps disreputable company. 2 dishevelled, unkempt, slovenly, untidy, shabby, disordered, messy, dirty, bedraggled, scruffy, seedy, threadbare, tattered, Brit down at heel, raddled, US down at the heel(s), Colloq sloppy, Slang Brit grotty: That disreputable beggar is your brother?
disservice n. harm, damage, injury, wrong, unkindness, bad turn, disfavour, injustice: It was a disservice to tell my boss about my expense account.
dissociate v. separate, cut off, sever, disassociate, disjoin, disconnect, abstract, disengage, detach, isolate, distance, break off (from), break up (with), divorce, set apart, segregate: I have carefully dissociated myself from any political party.
distinct adj. 1 clear, perceptible, plain, understandable, vivid, definite, well-defined, precise, exact, unmistakable or unmistakeable, noticeable, recognizable, obvious, patent, marked, manifest, evident, apparent, explicit, unambiguous, clear-cut, palpable, unequivocal, lucid, sharp, pellucid, limpid, transparent: There is a distinct outline of a figure on the Turin shroud. 2 separate, detached, discrete, different, dissimilar, distinguishable, distinguished; individual, sui generis, unique, special, singular; peculiar, unusual, uncommon, contrasting: The government of Puerto Rico is distinct from that of the US. He has been charged with three distinct offences.
distraught adj. distracted, agitated, troubled, disturbed, upset, perturbed, wrought or worked up, excited, frantic, at (one's) wits' end, overwrought, frenetic, nervous, frenzied, feverish, wild, hysterical, delirious, irrational, crazy, mad, insane, berserk, run(ning) amok: He is distraught with grief.
disturbance n. 1 disruption, disorder, disorganization, disarrangement, disarray; upheaval, interruption, upset, intrusion, interference: She won't tolerate any disturbance to her schedule. 2 commotion, disorder, upset, outburst, tumult, turmoil, turbulence, violence, hubbub, hullabaloo, hurly-burly, uproar, brouhaha, rumpus, brawl, mle or melee, breach of the peace, Donnybrook, fray, affray, fracas, trouble, Colloq ruckus, Brit spot of bother, Slang Brit spot of bovver: There was a disturbance at the pub yesterday.
divers adj. various, several, sundry; miscellaneous, multifarious, manifold, varied, assorted, variegated, differing, different; some, numerous, many: We have the divers statements of the witnesses.
divine adj. 1 godlike, godly, holy, deiform, deific, angelic, seraphic, saintly; heavenly, celestial; sacred, sanctified, hallowed, consecrated, religious, spiritual: They believe in the divine right of kings. He receives divine inspiration at divine services. 2 superhuman, supernatural, gifted, pre-eminent, superior, excellent, supreme, exalted, transcendent, extraordinary: Even the divine Homer nods. 3 great, marvellous, splendid, superlative, glorious, superb, admirable, wonderful, awesome, perfect, excellent, beautiful, Colloq super, great, terrific, smashing, fantastic, splendiferous, Colloq Brit ace, magic: They say that the new musical is simply divine. --v. 4 intuit, imagine, conjecture, guess, assume, presume, infer, suppose, hypothesize, surmise, suspect, understand, perceive, speculate, theorize, predict, foretell, have foreknowledge of; determine, discover: He had divined that she might be there. --n. 5 holy man, priest, clergyman, cleric, ecclesiastic, minister, pastor, reverend, churchman, prelate: At his club, he enjoys the company of bishops, archbishops, and other divines.
doddering adj. shaking, quaking, palsied, trembling, trembly, quivering, quavering, reeling, unsteady, shaky, staggering, shambling, decrepit, faltering; feeble, weak, frail, infirm; aged, old, superannuated, senile, anile: Once a vigorous sportsman, his illness has reduced him to a doddering octogenarian.
domestic adj. 1 home, private, family, familial; residential, household: Her domestic life is a shambles. This toaster is for domestic use. 2 tame, domesticated, house-trained, house-broken: Tenants are forbidden to keep domestic animals. 3 home, native, indigenous, internal, autochthonous: The domestic market accounts for most of the company's income. --n. 4 servant, (hired) help, housekeeper, major-domo, steward: Her domestics left and she now does the cleaning herself.
donation n. 1 gift, contribution, largesse, present, grant, award, alms, offering, bequest: Donations have exceeded our expectations. 2 giving, contribution, bestowal, allotment, provision, offer: We are seeking the donation of a piano for our theatre group.
dote v. Often, dote on or upon. be fond of, be infatuated with, love, idolize, hold dear, adore, make much of; coddle, pamper, spoil, indulge: I think she dotes on her husband at the expense of the children. What we need is a doting grandmother to babysit when we want to go out.
down and out adj. 1 indigent, poverty-stricken, poor, penniless, destitute, impoverished, Colloq broke, US on the skids, on skid row, on the bum, Slang Brit skint: Those vagrants are down and out and need help, not pity. --n. 2 down-and-out. derelict, beggar, outcast, tramp, vagrant, vagabond, US bum: He took to drink and ended up a complete down-and-out.
downwards adv. down, downward, below, lower: We moved downwards, towards the centre of the earth.
dramatize v. exaggerate, overplay, overstate, overdo, make a production or show (out) of, Colloq lay it on (thick), pile it on, ham (something or it) up: He always dramatizes everything way out of proportion.
drawn adj. haggard, worn out, tired, fatigued, strained, pinched, tense, exhausted: Sidonia looks a bit drawn after her ordeal. dread v. 1 fear, be afraid of, apprehend, anticipate, flinch, shrink or recoil from, cringe or quail or blench or wince at, view with horror or alarm: She dreads any kind of surgery. --n. 2 fear, fright, fearfulness, trepidation, apprehension, apprehensiveness, uneasiness, anticipation, alarm, nervousness, qualm, queasiness, misgiving, dismay, worry, anxiety, consternation, concern, distress, perturbation, disquiet, aversion, horror, terror, panic, Colloq cold feet, butterflies (in the stomach), the jitters; Slang the heebie-jeebies, the willies, the collywobbles: I regarded the history exam with dread. --adj. 3 feared, dreaded, dreadful, terrifying, terrible: Before us, breathing fire, was the dread dragon of the Druids.
drench v. soak, saturate, wet, flood, inundate, immerse, drown: She had no coat or umbrella and got completely drenched in the storm.
drip v. 1 dribble, trickle, drop; drizzle, sprinkle: The tap began to drip and kept me awake all night. --n. 2 dribble, trickle, drop, dripping: Yes, it was the drip from the tap that kept me awake. 3 milksop, bore, wet blanket, killjoy, damper, Colloq Brit wet, weed, Colloq wimp, Slang pill, drag, US and Canadian milquetoast: Must you invite that drip George?
drug n. 1 medication, medicine, medicament, pharmaceutical, remedy, cure, treatment; cure-all, panacea: My doctor prescribes too many drugs. 2 opiate, narcotic, stimulant, tranquillizer, antidepressant, hallucinogen(ic), psychedelic, hypnotic, soporific, sedative, analgesic, painkiller, Slang dope, downer, upper: Can they control the traffic in drugs? --v. 3 dose, medicate, treat: I was drugged with antihistamines and unable to drive. 4 anaesthetize, dope, deaden, knock out, sedate, stupefy, numb, benumb, dull, narcotize; poison, Slang slip (someone) a Mickey (Finn): The victim had been drugged and kidnapped.
due adj. 1 payable, owed, owing, unpaid, outstanding, in arrears: The rent is due tomorrow. 2 fitting, right, rightful, correct, proper, appropriate, apropos, apposite, suitable, apt, meet; deserved, (well-)earned, merited, just, justified: Was she treated with due respect? 3 necessary, needed, adequate, sufficient, enough, satisfactory; ample, plenty of: I do not think my case was given due consideration. 4 expected, scheduled, anticipated: He was due on the two o'clock plane. --adv. 5 directly, exactly, precisely, straight: Go due east to the river, then turn north.
dumbfounded adj. dumfounded, amazed, shocked, surprised, startled, astonished, astounded, bewildered, staggered, floored, nonplussed, overwhelmed, speechless, stunned, thunderstruck, dazzled, dazed, dumbstruck, taken aback, confused, confounded, bemused, perplexed, baffled, disconcerted, Colloq bowled over, flabbergasted, knocked out, thrown (off), US thrown for a loss, Brit knocked for six, knocked sideways: She is dumbfounded that he proposed marriage.
duplicate adj. 1 identical; twin, matching: They sent me duplicate tickets by mistake. --n. 2 (exact or carbon) copy, photocopy, machine copy, double, clone, (perfect) match, facsimile, twin, reproduction, replica, replication, look-alike, Trade Mark Xerox (copy), Slang (dead) ringer: This painting looks like a duplicate of the one you bought. --v. 3 copy, photocopy, clone, match, replicate, imitate, reproduce, double, Trade Mark Xerox; repeat, equal: Would you please duplicate this letter for me? Can he duplicate his performance in the Commonwealth Games?
dwell v. 1 reside, abide, live, lodge, stay, remain, rest, Formal domicile: After the father's death, the mother dwelt with her daughter. 2 dwell on or upon. harp on, persist in, emphasize, stress, focus on, linger or tarry over, elaborate (on); labour: Why must you always dwell on a person's shortcomings?
eagerness n. 1 avidity, zeal, earnestness, keenness, enthusiasm, fervour, hunger, vehemence, animation, vitality, appetite, zest, relish, spirit, spiritedness, gusto, verve, dash, lan, vim, vigour, energy, Colloq get-up-and-go, zip, go: Such eagerness for learning is rare. In his eagerness to please everyone he satisfies no one. 2 desire, longing, wishing, yearning: He observed the eagerness, the open hunger, with which she now waited for Mr Browning.
earthly adj. 1 terrestrial, terrene, telluric: Extraterrestrial beings might be unable to survive in our earthly atmosphere. 2 worldly, mundane, material, materialistic, physical, non-spiritual, sensual, carnal, fleshly, corporeal, base, natural: He has forsaken earthly pleasures in favour of spiritual pursuits. 3 human, temporal, secular, profane, mortal, physical, non-spiritual, material: His earthly remains were committed to the sea. 4 conceivable, imaginable, feasible, possible: What earthly reason could she have had for kissing me?
ebb v. 1 recede, flow back, subside, go out, go down; fall back or away, retreat, retrocede, retire: The tide ebbed, leaving the boat stranded. 2 decline, flag, decay, wane, diminish, decrease, drop, slacken, fade (away), drain (away), dwindle, peter out, waste (away), deteriorate: His enthusiasm for exercise is beginning to ebb. --n. 3 low tide, low water, ebb tide, low point: The rocks appear when the sea is at its ebb. 4 decline, decay, decrease, diminution, wane, drop, slackening (off), dwindling, lessening, deterioration, degeneration: She was no longer willing to contend with the ebb and flow of his temper.
ecstasy n. 1 delight, joy, rapture, bliss, transport, nympholepsy or nympholepsia, happiness, gladness, elation, pleasure, enjoyment, gratification; heaven on earth: The prospect of being with her again filled me with ecstasy. 2 exaltation, frenzy, thrill, elation, paroxysm, excitement: The ecstasy of space flight is impossible to describe.
editorial n. Brit leader, leading article; op-ed article, think-piece, opinion piece, position statement; essay, article, column: Did you see the editorial about the Middle East situation in today's paper?
effects n.pl. belongings, (personal) property, gear, possessions, stuff, things, paraphernalia, chattels, goods, Colloq junk, crap, Brit clobber, Taboo slang US shit: His personal effects were left scattered around the house.
effortless adj. easy (as pie or as A, B, C, or as 1, 2, 3), simple, painless, smooth, trouble-free, uncomplicated: She admired the apparently effortless grace of the dancer.
elastic adj. 1 flexible, stretchable, stretchy, stretch, bendable, pliable, springy, plastic, extensile, extensible, expansible, expandable, contractile, resilient, bouncy, compressible: Is it elastic enough to stretch round that box? 2 adjustable, adaptable, accommodating, flexible: The schedule for our main project is elastic, so we can fit in additional tasks at very short notice.
electric adj. charged, tense, energized, stimulating, exciting, thrilling, galvanizing, electrifying, moving, stirring: As the jury filed in, the atmosphere in the courtroom was electric.
elevated adj. 1 raised, upraised, uplifted, lifted (up): Only three hands were elevated in opposition and the motion was carried. 2 uplifted, noble, lofty, high, grand, exalted, dignified, eminent, pre-eminent, ennobled, prominent, notable, illustrious, distinguished, imposing, impressive, sublime: He has rather elevated notions of morality. 3 elated, cheerful, happy, exhilarated, animated, joyful, glad: Her elevated spirits and pleasant countenance make her a welcome guest.
eloquent adj. 1 expressive, articulate, silver-tongued, fluent, well-spoken, effective, persuasive, convincing, cogent, trenchant, incisive, graphic, vivid, striking, facile, smooth, glib, oratorical, rhetorical: He was an eloquent speaker. He rose and gave an eloquent speech. 2 suggestive, meaningful, pregnant: His eyebrow was raised in eloquent scepticism.
embark v. 1 board, go aboard; entrain; emplane or enplane: We embarked and the ship sailed. 2 Often, embark on. commence, begin, enter (upon), initiate, launch, start, go into, set about, take up or on, engage in, assume, tackle: He will embark on the new enterprise next month.
embezzle v. misappropriate, peculate, misapply, misuse, steal, make off or away with, filch, pilfer, purloin, Law defalcate; Colloq have one's hand in the till: The treasurer had embezzled half a million from the company.
emerge v. 1 appear, come out, come forth, come up, rise; arise, surface, come into view or notice, come to light, be revealed, crop up, turn out, develop, become known, become apparent, transpire, happen, evolve: It emerged that she had bought a pistol that morning. 2 issue, emanate, come forth, proceed: The train emerged from the tunnel.
emotion n. feeling, passion, sentiment, sensation: They say there is a fine line between the emotions of love and hate.
employer n. 1 proprietor, owner, patron, manager, director, chief, head, Colloq boss, Brit gaffer, governor, Eye dialect guv'nor, guv: My employer comes in late every day. 2 company, firm, corporation, business, establishment, organization, Colloq outfit: She took her employer to court for unfair dismissal.
enchanting adj. beguiling, bewitching, entrancing, spellbinding, charming, fascinating, captivating, intriguing, enthralling, alluring, delightful, hypnotic, attractive, appealing, winsome, ravishing, seductive: Caesar found Cleopatra utterly enchanting.
encroach v. Often, encroach on or upon. intrude, trespass, infringe, invade, make inroads: When you mention arctophily, you're encroaching on my territory.
endeavour v. 1 try, attempt, strive, make an effort, do one's best, struggle, exert oneself, undertake; aim, aspire; Colloq take a stab at, have a go or crack or whack or shot at: For years he's endeavoured to see her. --n. 2 effort, pains, attempt, try, striving, struggle, venture, enterprise, Colloq stab, crack, whack, shot: Her endeavours to be published have come to naught.
enemy n. foe, antagonist, adversary, opponent, rival, competitor, contestant, contender; the opposition, the other side: His enemies were running a smear campaign against him.
engagement n. 1 appointment, meeting, date, rendezvous, arrangement, commitment: I'm sorry, I have a previous engagement. 2 betrothal: Their engagement was announced in all the papers. 3 agreement, bargain, obligation, promise, pledge, covenant, contract: The company undertook an engagement to provide the steel. 4 job, position, post, commission, booking; employment, work; Colloq spot, Slang (of a musician) gig: He has an engagement with the newspaper. 5 fight, battle, conflict, encounter, combat: The naval engagement lasted three days and nights.
enjoy v. 1 delight in, appreciate, like, take or derive pleasure or satisfaction in or from, relish (in), fancy, take to, Slang dig, get a kick or lift or charge out of, get high on, get off on: Bernard really enjoys Wagner. 2 benefit or profit from, take advantage of, use, utilize, make use of, use to advantage, have, possess: He cannot be charged because he enjoys diplomatic immunity. 3 enjoy oneself. have a good time, make merry, Colloq have a ball or the time of one's life: I enjoyed myself at your party.
enormous adj. huge, immense, gigantic, elephantine, gargantuan, mammoth, titanic, colossal, tremendous, vast, massive, stupendous, Brobdingnagian, gross, monstrous, prodigious: An enormous dragon blocked their way out of the cave.
ensemble n. 1 outfit, costume, clothing, clothes, attire, apparel, garb, garments, coordinates, Colloq get-up: A black hat, gloves, and shoes completed the ensemble. 2 band, combination, orchestra, group; chorus, choir; Colloq combo: A new chamber music ensemble is performing tonight at the town hall. 3 assemblage, composite, aggregate, collection, set, whole, entirety, totality; agglomeration, conglomeration: A strange ensemble of objects was on display.
entertain v. 1 amuse, divert; delight, please; occupy: While we waited the boy entertained us with his juggling. 2 receive, accommodate, treat, be host (to), cater (for or to); have or see people or guests or visitors or company; Colloq host: We entertain on Tuesdays only. 3 contemplate, consider, have, hold, harbour, foster, tolerate, allow, maintain, sustain, support: They felt that they could not entertain the idea of their daughter marrying the gardener's son.
enticement n. 1 temptation, allurement, beguilement, seduction, cajolery, wheedling, blandishment, coaxing, persuasion: Do you approve of the system of enticement used to get you to buy time-share holidays? 2 lure, bait, decoy, trap, inducement, attraction, temptation, Colloq come-on, soft soap: Among the enticements offered was a free weekend in Paris.
entrenched adj. rooted, deep-rooted, embedded, fixed, (firmly) planted, established, set, deep-seated, unshakeable, ineradicable, ingrained: We were unable to combat their entrenched opposition to the proposals.
envious adj. jealous, covetous, resentful, begrudging, green-eyed, green (with envy), desirous: He is envious of his wife because she has a better job.
epicurean adj. 1 sensual, sybaritic, luxurious, voluptuous, carnal, self-indulgent, pleasure-seeking, pleasure-oriented, hedonistic, gluttonous, intemperate, overindulgent, crapulent or crapulous, swinish, porcine, piggish, immoderate, orgiastic, libidinous, wild, unrestrained, unconfined, dissolute, dissipated, Bacchanalian, Saturnalian: The king's epicurean lifestyle contrasted with that of his starving subjects. 2 Lucullan, gourmet: That was truly an epicurean repast. --n. 3 epicure: It was a meal that would have won the approval of the greatest epicureans.
equality n. 1 parity, sameness, identity, coequality, uniformity: The equality of the two bids was very suspicious. 2 similarity, likeness, resemblance, equivalence, correspondence, conformity, congruence, similitude, analogy, comparability, comparison, coincidence: The equality between their performances is surprising. 3 impartiality, fairness, justice; egalitarianism: Surely we all deserve equality of treatment under the law.
equivocate v. evade, mislead, hedge, deceive, quibble, dodge, weasel out (of), double-talk, fence, sidestep, skirt, avoid, tergiversate, prevaricate, Colloq waffle, beat about the bush, pussyfoot: I wish she'd confirm or deny it and stop equivocating.
errand n. 1 trip, journey: She was on an errand of mercy. 2 mission, charge, assignment, commission, task, duty: Francis is out running some errands for me.
essay n. 1 article, composition, paper, theme, piece; thesis, dissertation, disquisition, tract: Her essay is on the life cycle of the flea. 2 attempt, effort, try, endeavour, venture; Colloq shot, go: This is his first essay into the financial world. --v. 3 try, attempt, endeavour, strive, make an effort, undertake, venture, tackle, test, go about, Colloq take a crack or whack or stab at, Slang have a go at, give (it or something) a shot, have a go or bash (at): Let him essay to do better.
estimate v. 1 approximate, gauge, determine, judge, guess; assess, appraise, value, evaluate, reckon, calculate, work out, Colloq guestimate or guesstimate: Experts estimated the cost of restoration at 10,000. 2 consider, think, believe, guess, conjecture, judge: I estimate our chances of success as very low. --n. 3 approximation, gauge, guess, conjecture, assessment, appraisal, evaluation, reckoning, calculation, Colloq guestimate or guesstimate: What is your estimate of the company's value? 4 estimation, belief, opinion, judgement, thinking, feeling, sentiment, sense, (point of) view, viewpoint: My estimate of his abilities is that he is not the man for the job.
eulogize v. praise, extol, laud, applaud, compliment, sound or sing the praises of, acclaim; appreciate, honour; flatter: Kirk was eulogized for his contribution to space travel.
evaporation n. 1 vaporization, drying (up or out), dehydration, desiccation, exsiccation, parching, searing: Clouds are formed by the evaporation of terrestrial water. 2 disappearance, dispersion, dispelling, dissipation, evanescence, dematerialization, dissolution, fading (away), melting (away): He was pleased to note the evaporation of all serious opposition.
eventuality n. circumstance, contingency, event, occurrence, happening, case; likelihood, chance, possibility, probability: We must prepare for the eventuality of war.
evict v. oust, dislodge, turn out (of house and home), expel, eject, remove, dispossess, put out, Law disseise or disseize, Colloq toss or throw or kick or boot out, Brit turf out: The landlord evicted us for non-payment of rent.
evolution n. development, advance, growth, progress, progression, phylogeny, evolvement, developing, growing, evolving, formation, maturation, production: This book traces the evolution of the aeroplane. His treatise is on the evolution of insects.
examination n. 1 investigation, scrutiny, study, analysis, inspection, inquiry or enquiry, probe, search, exploration, research, survey, going-over, check-up, check(out), appraisal, assessment: Examination of the finances revealed a secret Swiss bank account. 2 testing, test, quiz, exam: There will be a written examination on Friday. 3 interrogation, inquisition, inquiry or enquiry, catechism, cross-examination, Colloq third degree, grill(ing): Examination of the prisoners is left to intelligence officers.
exceedingly adv. very, extremely, especially, exceptionally, considerably, incomparably, immeasurably, extraordinarily, remarkably; excessively, greatly, hugely, enormously: She plays the violin exceedingly well. Even for a dog, that is an exceedingly ugly dog.
excerpt n. 1 extract, selection, quotation, citation, passage, pericope: The speaker read excerpts from well-known writers. --v. 2 extract, select, quote, cite, cull (out), pick (out), take: Parts of this book were excerpted from his earlier writings.
exciting adj. 1 stimulating, intoxicating, heady, thrilling, stirring, moving, inspiring, rousing, exhilarating, electrifying, galvanizing, energizing, invigorating; overwhelming, overpowering, astounding, astonishing, amazing, mind-boggling, Colloq far-out, rip-roaring, mind-blowing: Orbiting the world in the space shuttle was the most exciting experience of my life. 2 seductive, sensuous, voluptuous, ravishing, captivating, charming, tempting, enticing, alluring, provocative, titillating, Colloq sexy: Fenella is truly an exciting young woman.
execute v. 1 accomplish, do, carry out or off or through, perform, discharge, dispatch or despatch, bring about or off, implement, engineer, cause, Colloq pull off, put over, Slang US swing, cut, hack (out): She executes her duties satisfactorily. 2 complete, finish, deliver; achieve, consummate, fulfil, effect, effectuate; sign, seal, validate, countersign: He executed the portrait in an hour. The contract was executed yesterday. 3 put to death, kill, put to the sword, butcher; liquidate, assassinate, murder, remove, slay, Slang bump off, rub or wipe out, snuff (out), knock off, US waste, ice: Convicted murderers are no longer executed in this country. The mob executed the rival gangleaders.
exertion n. action, effort, striving, strain, work, struggle, toil, drive, push, diligence, industry, assiduity, assiduousness, sedulousness, sedulity, Colloq US stick-to-it-iveness: By considerable exertion, we finished on time. He was tired after all his exertions.
exhibit v. show, display, present, offer, expose; show off, parade, brandish, flaunt; demonstrate, reveal, betray, manifest, exemplify, evince, evidence, disclose, express: Her paintings are widely exhibited. Such behaviour exhibits poor judgement.
exotic adj. 1 foreign, alien, non-native, imported: She raises exotic plants. 2 strange, unfamiliar, unusual, bizarre, odd, peculiar, unique, singular, extraordinary, remarkable, out of the ordinary, different, outlandish, weird, crazy: His exotic clothes make him stand out in a crowd. 3 striptease, belly, go-go, topless, bottomless, nude: Her daughter is an exotic dancer at the new disco.
expedient adj. 1 suitable, appropriate, fitting, fit, befitting, proper, apropos, right, correct, meet, pertinent, applicable, practical, pragmatic, worthwhile, politic: To cross the river, a bridge would prove expedient. 2 advantageous, beneficial, advisable, desirable, recommended, useful, practical, utilitarian, prudent, wise, propitious, opportune, helpful, effective: Count on him to do what is expedient and ignore what is honest. --n. 3 device, resource, means, measure, contrivance, resort, recourse: Life jackets are a useful expedient if the boat sinks.
expense n. 1 Often, expenses. payment, costs, outlay, outgoings, disbursement, expenditure, spending, out-of-pocket (expenses); cost, price, charge, fee, rate: Keep your expenses to a minimum. Expenses for travel and entertainment will be reimbursed by the company. 2 detriment, sacrifice, cost, loss, impairment, ruin, destruction: They continue to smoke at the expense of their health.
expiration n. expiry, finish, (coming to an) end, termination, running out, ending, conclusion, concluding, close, closing, discontinuance, discontinuation: The expiration of the option is in March.
exploit n. 1 achievement, deed, feat, attainment, accomplishment: The speaker regaled them with tales of his exploits as an explorer. --v. 2 use, take advantage of, manipulate, make capital out of, profit from, utilize, turn to account, manoeuvre, work: Far from being your friends, they are exploiting you for their own purposes. They need capital to exploit the country's natural resources.
express v. 1 articulate, verbalize, phrase, utter, voice, state, word, put (into words), set or put forth, put or get across, communicate, depict, portray; say, speak, tell: She expressed her thoughts on the subject very clearly. 2 show, indicate, demonstrate, manifest, exhibit, evince, evidence, reveal, expose, disclose, divulge, make known, intimate, betoken, signify, embody, depict, designate, denote, convey: His tone of voice expressed his resentment. 3 symbolize, represent, signify, stand for, denote, designate: The ratio can be expressed in the form of a fraction. 4 press or squeeze or wring or force out, expel, extract: The oil is expressed from ripe olives. --adj. 5 explicit, clear, plain, unambiguous, unmistakable, unqualified, outright, definite, out-and-out, downright, straightforward, categorical, direct, specific, well-defined, distinct, precise, accurate, exact, positive: We had an express understanding not to enter into competition with one another. 6 specific, special, particular, clear-cut; true: Our express purpose in coming was to see you. 7 quick, speedy, swift, fast, rapid, prompt, immediate; direct, non-stop: The documents must be sent by express delivery.
extension n. 1 stretching, expansion, increase, enlargement, augmentation, development, amplification, broadening, widening, lengthening, spread, spreading: The extension of the plan is scheduled for next year. 2 range, extensiveness, scope, extent, magnitude, gauge, compass, sweep, reach, size, volume, dimension(s), proportions, capacity, span; breadth, width, height, length, spread, stretch: The extension of the mind seems almost limitless. 3 addendum, addition, annexe, wing, adjunct, ell, appendage; appendix, supplement: We have built an extension to the house.
extinguish v. 1 put or snuff or blow out, quench; turn off or out: We are landing shortly, so please extinguish all smoking materials. Extinguish the lights before leaving. 2 kill (off), annihilate, destroy, obliterate, abolish, exterminate, eliminate, do away with, nullify, eradicate, remove, banish, wipe or blot out: The potion contained a drug that extinguished all memory of unhappiness. 3 obscure, eclipse, dim, outdo, put in the shade, overshadow, adumbrate, Colloq show up: His personality is completely extinguished by the dazzle of his wife.
extravagance n. 1 wastefulness, waste, lavishness, profligacy, prodigality, squandering, dissipation, improvidence, exorbitance, recklessness, overspending, excess: Our present debts are the result of extravagance. 2 immoderation, immoderateness, excessiveness, outrageousness, unrestraint, superfluity, superfluousness, over-sufficiency, preposterousness, unreasonableness, irrationality, absurdity; capriciousness, whim, fantasy, flightiness: His tawdry life belied the extravagance of his dreams.
exuberance n. 1 cheerfulness, joy, joyfulness, ebullience, effervescence, exhilaration, buoyancy, animation, spirit, spiritedness, sprightliness, liveliness, vitality, vivacity, enthusiasm, excitement, zeal, zest, energy, vigour: It is hard to imagine the dog's exuberance when he saw his master. 2 abundance, lavishness, effusiveness, flamboyance, copiousness, superabundance, superfluity, excess, profusion, prodigality, bounteousness, bountifulness: Everything attests to the exuberance of the author's genius.
fabrication n. 1 construction, assembly, assemblage, making, fashioning, production, manufacture, putting together, building, erection, formation, formulation, structuring, constructing, organization, forming, framing, architecture: The fabrication of thousands of parts took only a month. 2 invention, creation, origination, make-up, manufacture, hatching, concoction, contrivance, design: Only Vanessa could have been responsible for the fabrication of such a diabolical plot. 3 falsehood, lie, fib, prevarication, story, tale, untruth, fiction, yarn, fable; falsification, forgery, fake, sham, Colloq cock-and-bull story, Brit fairy story, fairy tale: His war record is a complete fabrication.
faction n. 1 group, cabal, bloc, cadre, camp, splinter group, circle, camarilla, clique, set, coterie, lobby, pressure group, junta or junto, ring, gang, Brit ginger group, Colloq crowd: There is a small faction plotting to assassinate the finance minister. 2 dissension, intrigue, strife, sedition, disharmony, discord, disagreement, quarrelling, contention, controversy, infighting, rupture, split, rift, schism, clash: Faction within the party has no regard for national interests.
fade v. 1 (grow) dim or pale, grow faint, cloud (over), dull; bleach, whiten, etiolate, wash out, blanch or blench, discolour: The scene faded in the distance. Look how the sun has faded the curtains! 2 droop, wither, decline, die out or away, perish, ebb, flag, wane, wilt, waste away, sag, diminish, dwindle, languish, deteriorate, decay, shrivel, peter out or away: As he aged, his lust for life faded.
fair n. fte, festival, kermis or kirmess, exhibition, exposition, show; market, bazaar, mart, US exhibit: Ashby will judge the sheep at the annual fair.
fallacy n. misconception, miscalculation, misjudgement, mistake, error, non sequitur, solecism, delusion; paralogism; sophism: It is a fallacy to think that you could ever learn to play the violin as well as Susannah.
familiarize v. Usually, familiarize with. accustom (to), make familiar or acquaint (with), initiate (in), inform (about or on), enlighten (about or as to), teach (about), educate or instruct or tutor (in): I am trying to familiarize myself with the music of John Cage.
fanatical adj. fanatic, extreme, distracted, maniacal, mad, rabid, zealous, frenzied, feverish, burning, frantic, frenetic, obsessive, fervent, compulsive, monomaniacal, fervid, perfervid, passionate, enthusiastic, agog, immoderate, excessive: The entire family are fanatical in their fundamentalism.
fantasy n. 1 imagination, fancy, creativity, inventiveness, creativity, originality: We encourage the children to give free rein to their fantasy. 2 vision, hallucination, illusion, mirage, delusion, chimera, dream, day-dream, (flight of) fancy, pipedream: Her fantasy is to become prime minister. 3 make-believe, invention, cabrication, fiction, masquerade, fable, concoction, pretence: His story about being an orphan is pure fantasy.
farmer n. husbandman, agriculturist, agronomist, yeoman, Brit smallholder, US dialect granger: The farmers here were hard hit by the drought.
fast v. 1 abstain, go hungry, deny oneself, diet, starve (oneself): Do you fast during Lent? --n. 2 abstention, abstinence, fasting, self-denial, diet; hunger strike: She went on a two-week fast.
fated adj. 1 destined, predestined, predetermined, decreed, doomed, fateful, ordained, foreordained, preordained, decided: The fated day of my trial arrived. 2 sure, certain, doomed, damned, cursed: Was I fated to spend the rest of my life in this fetid dungeon? 3 fatal, fateful, unavoidable, inescapable, inevitable, ineluctable: Their fated punishment was to bail out the sea using sieves.
fatness n. obesity, stoutness, corpulence, embonpoint, portliness, plumpness, chubbiness, rotundity, podginess or chiefly US pudginess: His fatness is owing to a glandular condition, not overeating.
favoured adj. 1 preferred, chosen, choice, selected, popular, favourite, pet: The favoured explanation is that he is the boss's son. 2 advantaged, privileged, blessed, prosperous, wealthy, rich, affluent, well off: She is one of the favoured few who can afford to travel.
feasibility n. practicability, workability, applicability, viability, practicality: The feasibility of the scheme has yet to be assessed.
feeble-minded adj. stupid, dull(-witted), witless, moronic, idiotic, imbecilic, simple, slow (on the uptake), slow-witted, weak-minded, dim-witted, addle-pated, halfwitted, deficient, subnormal, mentally defective, retarded, attocerebral, Brit ESN (='educationally subnormal'), Colloq dumb, thick, soft in the head, boneheaded, empty-headed, vacant, Brit gormless, US exceptional: Why do you spend so much time with that feeble-minded twit?
fellowship n. 1 companionship, camaraderie, comradeship, amity, brotherhood, fraternization, togetherness, association, friendship, amity, companionability, sociability, intimacy: I have always enjoyed the fellowship of my university colleagues. 2 society, club, association, alliance, guild, league, union, sisterhood, sorority, brotherhood, fraternity, congregation, circle, community, order, organization, consortium, partnership; lodge, clan, company, coterie, set, clique, coalition, bloc, cartel, trust: They belong to the worldwide fellowship of artists. 3 friendliness, clubbiness, sociability, intimacy, amicability, affability, kindliness, cordiality, familiarity, affinity, belonging, congeniality, warmth, hospitality: Being a club member gives him a feeling of fellowship.
fertilize v. 1 impregnate, inseminate, pollinate, fecundate, fructify: The flower should be fertilized by pollen from a different stock. 2 manure, mulch, feed, nourish, enrich, dress, compost: The earth can be fertilized at any time.
fte n. 1 festival, entertainment, reception, levee, gala, rejoicing, celebration, party, festivities, get-together, social, amusement, revel, fair, ball, frolic, spree, jamboree, carnival, event, occasion, Colloq blow-out, shindig, bash, do, bust, Slang US and Canadian wingding, blast: You are invited to our annual fte on New Year's Eve. --v. 2 entertain, feast, roll or bring out the red carpet for, wine and dine, celebrate, honour, lionize, fuss over, kill the fatted calf for: Fiona's book was a great success and she was fted all over Europe.
fibre n. 1 filament, thread, strand, fibril, tendril: This fabric is woven from cotton fibre. 2 texture, structure, material, fabric: The fibre of this rock is granular. 3 essence, character, nature, mould, composition, constitution, substance, quality, stripe, cast, make-up: Love for him is wrapped up in the very fibre of her being.
fiend n. 1 See devil. 2 addict, maniac, fanatic; fan, aficionado, enthusiast, devotee, hound, follower, Colloq buff, nut, Slang freak: He's a Welsh rarebit fiend.
file n. 1 document, documentation, dossier, case, data, folder, portfolio, information: Interpol has files on Cowdery's activities going back ten years. 2 line, queue, column, row, rank: The file of armoured vehicles stretched for miles. --v. 3 classify, organize, systematize, categorize, alphabetize, chronologize, order, arrange, pigeon-hole, interfile, put or place in order, register, record, enter: Must all this correspondence be filed today? 4 submit, send in, complete, fill in or US and Canadian also fill out, enter: I have already filed my application for a transfer. 5 walk, march, troop, parade: Please file into the classroom and take your seats.
final adj. 1 ending, concluding, terminating, finishing, closing, last, terminal, ultimate, end: The final sentence needs rewriting. 2 conclusive, decisive, unalterable, irreversible, irrevocable, incontrovertible, irrefutable, indisputable, unchangeable, immutable, definitive; settled, fixed, absolute, certain, sure: Those are my final words on the subject. We made a final series of measurements.
finding n. 1 discovery, find: The findings from Pompeii are in the Museum of Portici. 2 judgement, decree, verdict, decision, determination, pronouncement, declaration, conclusion: The findings of the Law Lords are final.
finite adj. limited, bounded, bound, restricted, delimited, numerable, countable: It has been shown that there are a finite number of grains of sand in the universe.
fishy adj. 1 piscine, fishlike, piscatory, piscatorial: On the fishmonger's slab lay an array of fishy offerings, only a few of which I could recognize. 2 dubious, doubtful, questionable, unlikely, far-fetched, suspicious, not kosher, peculiar, odd, queer, strange, suspect, improbable, implausible, Colloq shady, funny: There is something fishy about this deal.
fixation n. mania, obsession, compulsion, fixed idea, ide fixe, fetish, monomania, preoccupation, infatuation, Colloq hang-up, thing, kick: He has a health-food fixation.
flagrant adj. blatant, brazen, bold, barefaced, audacious, arrant, glaring, outrageous, shocking, shameless, scandalous, atrocious, infamous, notorious, defiant, egregious, obvious, conspicuous, open, complete, out-and-out, utter, flagitious, monstrous, heinous, cruel, villainous, treacherous, nefarious, awful, gross, rank, inconsiderate, scornful, contemptuous; reprehensible; contemptible: Speeding shows a flagrant disregard for the safety of others.
flank n. 1 side, quarter; loin, haunch: The enemy was about to attack our flank. The pony drew back with trembling flanks. --v. 2 edge, border, line: Armed guards flanked the entrance. 3 skirt, outmanoeuvre, outflank, circle, go (a)round: They have enough troops to flank our forces to the east.
flatter v. 1 butter up, play up to, compliment, praise, fawn (on or upon), toady to, truckle to, court, curry favour with, Colloq flannel, soft-soap, oil; Slang shine or suck up to, boot-lick, Taboo kiss (someone's) arse, brown-nose: Flattering the boss won't get you a salary increase. 2 enhance, complement, suit, show to advantage: That colour flatters her complexion. 3 cajole, wheedle, coax, inveigle, beguile, sweet-talk: He was flattered into signing that contract.
flawless adj. 1 perfect, pristine, pure, uncorrupted, chaste, virgin, intact, whole, clean, immaculate, unsullied, unspoilt, unsoiled, impeccable, unblemished, faultless, undamaged, unimpaired, spotless, untarnished: Two flawless artefacts were found in the tomb. Many envied her flawless reputation. 2 undeniable, unassailable, unimpeachable, unquestionable, irrefutable, foolproof, sound, demonstrable: The prosecutor's evidence appears to be flawless.
flex n. 1 wire, lead, cord, cable, extension: Replace this flex before you have a short circuit. --v. 2 bend, give, stretch, curve: The plastic tube can be flexed many times without breaking. 3 exercise, tense, tighten, contract: He flexed his muscles before lifting the weight.
flinch v. wince, draw back, withdraw, cower, cringe, recoil, start, quail, blench, shrink (from), shy (away) (from), dodge, duck: Each time he raised the whip, I flinched.
float v. 1 hover, poise, bob, waft, be suspended, hang; sail, drift, glide, swim: In the clear Caribbean waters, the boat seemed to float in mid-air. 2 launch, establish, set up, organize, found, initiate, get going or moving: The financiers are trying to float a new company. 3 negotiate, arrange, transact, bring or carry off, get, effect, consummate, Colloq pull off, swing: Were you able to float a loan on your house? --n. 4 raft, Brit platform: I can swim out to the float. 5 buoy; pontoon: The bridge is supported by floats. 6 (parade) exhibit or display: Our parade float won first prize.
flourish v. 1 prosper, thrive, grow, develop, luxuriate, bloom, blossom, flower, bear fruit, fructify, boom, burgeon or bourgeon, mature, ripen, increase, succeed, get ahead, do or fare well, make good; go up or rise in the world; Slang go great guns: We understand that Amy's medical practice has flourished. 2 wave, wield, brandish, wag, swing, twirl, flaunt, vaunt, swagger, swish, shake: The band-leader flourished his baton. --n. 3 decoration, embellishment, floridness, floweriness, ornamentation, elaboration, adornment, frill, embroidery, curlicue, furbelow: His signature is characterized by all these flourishes. 4 fanfare, display, show, showiness, dash, gesturing, wave: With a flourish of his hand, the king signalled the tourney to begin.
fluency n. articulateness, eloquence, control, command, ease, grace, effortlessness, facility, felicity, smoothness, polish, slickness, glibness, volubility: His extemporaneous speeches are marked by an enviable fluency.
flurry n. 1 activity, commotion, ado, to-do, fuss, upset, hubbub, pother, stir, excitement, disturbance, agitation, tumult, whirl, furore, bustle, hurry, hustle, flutter, fluster; burst, outburst; Colloq tizzy: I was happy to leave the worry and flurry of the city. There was a brief flurry of activity at the Stock Exchange today. --v. 2 confuse, bewilder, agitate, put out, disturb, excite, fluster, disconcert, upset, perturb, unsettle, shake (up), Colloq rattle: He was quite flurried by the arrival of the police.
foam n. 1 bubbles, froth, spume, lather, suds; effervescence, sparkle, carbonation, fizz: The foam leaves spots when it dries. --v. 2 bubble, froth, spume, lather, suds, soap up: Watch the solution foam when I drop this tablet into it.
fold v. 1 bend, ply, double (over or up), overlap, crease, pleat, gather, crimp: Fold the letter before putting it into the envelope. 2 enclose, envelop, enfold, wrap, enwrap, clasp, clip, embrace, hug, gather: He folded her in his arms. 3 give way, collapse, fail, close (up or down), shut down, go out of business, go bankrupt, Colloq go under, go broke, go bust, Brit go to the wall: The company folded and ten employees were made redundant. --n. 4 crease, wrinkle, crinkle, pucker, pleat, gather, crimp, overlap, lap: The folds will remain crisp if you use starch when ironing.
fond adj. 1 tender, loving, affectionate, warm, adoring, caring: She clasped him in a fond embrace. 2 foolish, bootless, empty, vain, nave: She had fond hopes of his being elected. 3 fond of. partial to, (having a) liking (for), soft on or about, affectionate towards, attached to, having a fancy or taste for, fancying, predisposed or inclined to or towards; addicted to, Colloq hooked on: She is inordinately fond of chocolate.
footing n. 1 foundation, basis, base, ground(s): The events put our entire relationship on a new footing. 2 standing, status, level, condition, position, terms, state, rank: The two departments are on an equal footing as far as funding is concerned. 3 foothold, toe-hold; balance, stability: She lost her footing on the icy pavement and down she went.
forcible adj. 1 See forceful, 2. 2 drastic, forceful, violent, aggressive, coercive, severe, stringent: The plan involves the forcible repatriation of refugees.
foremost adj. 1 first, primary, prime, leading, pre-eminent, supreme; prominent, notable, noteworthy, noted, chief, paramount, main, best, superior: She is one of the foremost eye surgeons in her country. --adv. 2 first, firstly, primarily, primarily, in (the) first place, before anything else: First and foremost, we must consider the matter of safety.
foreword n. preface, prologue, prelude, prolegomenon, preamble, Literary proem; introduction: He set forth the purpose of the book in the foreword.
forgiving adj. tolerant, lenient, sparing, forbearing, merciful, compassionate, conciliatory, magnanimous, humane, soft-hearted, clement: In a forgiving mood, the judge gave her a light sentence.
former adj. 1 previous, earlier, prior, ex-, one-time, preceding, erstwhile, late, latest, last, recent, ci-devant, quondam, Archaic whilom: I ran into a former girl-friend at the art show. 2 old, past, bygone; ancient, (pre)historic, departed, antediluvian: In former times, one could demand - and get decent service.
forthright adj. straightforward, direct, blunt, candid, frank, above-board, unambiguous, unequivocal, open, outspoken, uninhibited, unreserved, unconstrained, unrestrained: She has always been forthright and honest in her dealings with me.
foul adj. 1 offensive, loathsome, disgusting, obnoxious, revolting, repulsive, repellent, repugnant, sickening, nauseous, nauseating, nasty, beastly, Archaic fulsome: The bartender makes a foul concoction he swears will cure a hangover. 2 filthy, unclean, nasty, polluted, putrid, putrescent, putrefactive or putrefacient, defiled, soiled, spoiled, rotten, decayed, decomposed, rancid, soured, turned, tainted, mouldy, impure, adulterated, contaminated, stale, bad, Brit off: The hamburger place was closed when public health inspectors found foul food in the freezer. 3 smelly, stinking, noisome, fetid or foetid, rank, evil-smelling, foul-smelling, malodorous, musty, mephitic, graveolent: A foul odour emanated from the cabinet. 4 wicked, vile, bad, base, abominable, low, sordid, iniquitous, evil, flagitious, atrocious, monstrous, nefarious, sinful, immoral, amoral, vicious, villainous, scandalous, infamous, dishonourable, shameful, disgraceful, ignominious; detestable: They were finally brought to justice for their foul deeds. 5 dirty, obscene, filthy, profane, scatological, gross, smutty, foul-mouthed, blue, licentious, salacious, lewd, indecent, improper, coarse, uncouth, vulgar, rude, scurrilous, rough, indelicate, immodest, risqu, off colour, suggestive, bawdy, ribald, Rabelaisian, Fescennine, US raw, Slang raunchy: My mother forbids my reading books containing foul language. 6 abusive, offensive, affronting, insulting, disparaging, maligning, thersitical, calumnious or calumniatory, aspersive, slanderous, defamatory, libellous, denigrating, derogatory, deprecatory or deprecative, depreciatory or depreciative, denunciatory or denunciative, derisory, derisive, scornful, belittling, fulminous, objurgatory or objurgative, vituperative, invective: Keep your foul tongue to yourself. 7 dishonest, unfair, unjust, unsportsmanlike, dishonourable, fraudulent, underhand(ed), double-dealing, two-faced, corrupt, venal, dirty, treacherous, perfidious, traitorous, unscrupulous, Colloq crooked, shady, Slang chiefly Brit bent: Thrupp will get his way by fair means or foul. 8 nasty, dangerous, rough, disagreeable, unfavourable, sloppy, stormy, adverse; windy, blustery; snowy, sleety, wet, rainy: We ran into a spot of foul weather at Dover. 9 obstructed, blocked, choked, stopped (up), plugged (up), clogged (up): The drain is foul with all that rubbish. 10 tangled, entangled, caught, ensnared, enmeshed, snarled: A foul anchor is a common nautical symbol. 11 illegal, prohibited, forbidden, interdicted, not fair; dirty: In boxing a hit below the belt is a foul blow. --v. 12 dirty, pollute, sully, befoul, defile, soil, contaminate, adulterate, taint: Effluent from the factory was fouling the river. 13 tangle, entangle, catch, snare, ensnare, enmesh, snag, snarl, jam, twist: We can't hoist the mainsail because the halyard is fouled. 14 disgrace, dishonour, sully, taint, besmirch, defile, soil, stain, smear, tarnish, blacken, denigrate, debase, degrade, abase, demean, disparage, defame, derogate, asperse, devaluate, depreciate, vitiate, belittle, discredit, bring or call into disrepute: That act of treachery will foul the family name for generations. 15 obstruct, block, choke, stop or plug or clog (up): Dead leaves fouled the downpipe. 16 foul up. a See def. 13 mismanage, mishandle, botch, bungle, make a mess (of), mess up, spoil, ruin, Colloq muff, Brit throw a spanner in(to) (the works), US throw a monkey wrench into (the machinery); Slang muck up, goof (up), blow, screw up, louse up, Chiefly Brit bugger (up), US and Canadian snafu: Give him a chance and he's sure to foul up. She fouled up my hi-fi. --n. 17 violation, infringement, infraction, illegality: The Rangers' forward has already been charged with two fouls. --adv. 18 afoul, in conflict, in trouble, in violation: Curshaw has fallen foul of the law again.
foxy adj. 1 clever, sly, cunning, wily, crafty, tricky, guileful, shifty, devious, slippery, smooth, slick, artful, resourceful, ingenious, calculating, designing, plotting, scheming, disingenuous, knowing, shrewd, sharp, astute, wise; foxlike, vulpine; Colloq cagey or cagy: Be careful dealing with him, for he can be foxy. 2 attractive, alluring, seductive, vampish, Colloq sexy: Margo is a very foxy lady.
frail adj. 1 See fragile. 2 ailing, unwell, ill, sick, sickly, poorly, thin, skinny, slight, puny, scrawny, wasting or fading away, languishing, infirm, feeble; crippled, consumptive, phthisic: She is too frail to see visitors.
fraud n. 1 deception, trickery, cheating, sharp practice, chicanery, deceit, swindling, double-dealing, duplicity, artifice, craft, guile, humbug, humbuggery, treachery, Colloq monkey business, funny business, hanky-panky: The company directors have been convicted of fraud. 2 trick, hoax, swindle, deception, cheat, wile, stratagem, dodge, bilk, ruse, sham, fake, subterfuge, Colloq flimflam, Slang gyp, rip-off, scam: The investigation exposed extensive fraud in the handling of local government funds. 3 deceiver, trickster, cheat(er), impostor, swindler, charlatan, humbug, sharper, shark, bilk(er), quack, mountebank, fake(r), pretender, bluff(er), confidence man, inveigler, defrauder; scoundrel, rogue, Archaic knave; Colloq con man or artist, phoney or US also phony, flimflam artist, flimflammer, US and Canadian four-flusher; Slang US barracuda: He is a fraud who extracts protection money from the elderly.
freely adv. 1 candidly, frankly, openly, unreservedly, without reserve, unrestrainedly, without restraint, unconstrainedly, without constraint, unceremoniously, plainly: Please speak freely. 2 willingly, spontaneously, readily, voluntarily, on (one's) own, independently, of (one's) own accord, of (one's) own volition or free will: I didn't send for her - she came to me freely. 3 unrestrainedly, unrestrictedly, without restriction, without let or hindrance, without interference: He was allowed to move freely about the island. 4 liberally, lavishly, unreservedly, generously, unstintingly, open-handedly, ungrudgingly, munificently, amply, plentifully, abundantly: He has no money to donate but he gives freely of his time. 5 readily, easily, smoothly, cleanly, unobstructedly: With the obstacle removed, the water ran freely through the pipes.
fret v. 1 worry, be concerned, agonize, lose sleep, be upset or distressed or anxious or disturbed, grieve, brood, whine, fuss, complain, Colloq stew, tear one's hair: Your kitten is safe now, so stop fretting. 2 worry, concern, distress, vex, annoy, irritate, torment, provoke, US rankle: She fretted herself about Henry's health.
frightening adj. terrifying, alarming, startling, shocking, petrifying, horrifying, dismaying, appalling, unnerving, dire, distressing, daunting, intimidating, formidable, frightful, fearful, hair-raising, harrowing, dreadful, Colloq scary, spooky: Skydiving can be a frightening experience. The sight of their mangled bodies was frightening.
fritter v. fritter away. squander, waste, idle away, misspend, dissipate: Stop frittering away your time watching television. She frittered away every penny of her inheritance.
frugal adj. 1 thrifty, sparing, economic(al), careful, prudent, provident, saving, conservative, conservational, moderate: Mother had to become quite frugal when father fell ill. 2 parsimonious, penurious, penny-pinching, cheese-paring, mean, miserly, stingy, niggardly, tight(-fisted), close(-fisted), hand to mouth: He led a frugal existence on his earnings as an artist. 3 meagre, paltry, poor, skimpy, scant(y), small, negligible, piddling: His frugal meal consisted entirely of bread and water.
fulfil v. 1 bring about, achieve, accomplish, bring or carry to completion, carry out, complete, consummate, discharge, live up to, abide by, observe, realize, effect, bring or carry off, carry through, keep, satisfy, do, perform, execute, effectuate, achieve: I trust that you will fulfil all your obligations. Will she ever fulfil her ambition to be a virtuoso pianist? 2 answer, satisfy, meet, implement, look or see to, conform to or with, comply with, obey: This hammer will fulfil my needs for the moment. Will your new assistant be able to fulfil your requirements?
functional adj. 1 utilitarian, useful, serviceable, practical, practicable, functioning, working; essential, important, effective: This gear is a functional part, not mere decoration. 2 working, operating, operational, running, going: Is this telephone functional?
furnish v. 1 supply, provide, afford, equip, outfit, fit (out or up), rig (out or up), provision, give, stock up, Colloq Brit kit out or up: The trading post furnished what we needed for a month in the wilderness. Can you furnish me with a blanket? 2 decorate, equip: She received a commission to furnish a ten-room house. furniture n. 1 furnishings, household (goods); movables, chattels, paraphernalia, effects, possessions, belongings, Colloq gear, things, stuff, Slang shit: There wasn't any furniture in the room, not even a chair. 2 fittings, fitments, equipment, fixtures, apparatus, devices, tackle, tack, trappings, gear, accoutrements or US also accouterments, accessories, appliances, Colloq Brit clobber: The front door has some fine brass furniture.
fussy adj. 1 particular, finicky, finical, dainty, discriminating, difficult, fastidious, exacting, demanding, Colloq picky, choosy, nit-picking, pernickety or US also persnickety: He's so fussy that he'll wear only custom-made shoes. 2 fancy, elaborate, over-decorated, gingerbread, rococo, ornate, detailed, Byzantine: The style is a bit too fussy for my taste.
gag n. 1 joke, witticism, jest, quip, pun, gibe, Colloq wisecrack, Slang crack: He told some gags but nobody found them funny. 2 practical joke, hoax, prank, trick, Colloq fast one: For a gag, we put a snake in the sergeant's bed.
gallant adj. 1 brave, courageous, bold, valiant, daring, dauntless, intrepid, plucky, fearless, valorous, unafraid, undaunted, manly, manful, plucky, mettlesome, stout-hearted, lion-hearted, heroic, dashing, (high-)spirited: Three gallant soldiers held off the enemy attack. 2 chivalrous, courtly, courteous, polite, attentive, gentlemanly, noble, gracious, considerate, thoughtful, well-bred, mannerly: What man is so gallant today as to give up his seat on a bus to a lady? 3 dignified, elegant, imposing, grand, noble, glorious, fine, splendid, majestic, stately, magnificent: Overwhelmed by four enemy men o' war, the gallant ship sank beneath the waves. --n. 4 champion, hero, knight, cavalier, paladin: Which gallant wears her scarf on his sleeve in today's jousts? 5 lover, Romeo, sweetheart, beloved, paramour, boyfriend, beau, escort, suitor, admirer, Literary swain: In those days, gallants continually sent their ladies gifts and flowers.
gap n. 1 opening, space, aperture, distance, hole, void, gulf, cavity, break, breach, crevice, chink, crack, split, division, cleft, rift, rip, tear, rent; interruption, interval, lacuna, hiatus, discontinuity, disruption; lull, pause, rest, recess, halt, stop, suspension, delay, wait, intermission, respite: The gap between the walls is just big enough for a child. I can see through a gap in the curtain. There is a gap in his payment record. 2 difference, divergence, disparity, disagreement, inconsistency, discrepancy; division, distinction: A gap exists between your ideas of justice and mine.
gash n. 1 cut, slash, wound, score, cleft, incision, laceration, slit, groove, split: The chisel slipped, cutting a deep gash in the table. --v. 2 cut, slash, wound, score, cleave, incise, lacerate, slit, groove, split: I've gashed my hand on a rusty nail.
gawk n. 1 oaf, lout, bumpkin, clod, boor, churl, dolt, dunderhead or dunderpate, ninny, ninny-hammer, ignoramus, fool, simpleton, ass, bungler, bumbler, Colloq clodhopper, lummox, Slang chiefly US old-fashioned galoot or galloot, lug: You big gawk, get out of my way! --v. 2 stare, goggle, gape, Colloq rubberneck, Slang Brit gawp or gaup: Stop gawking and help me get him to a hospital.
generate v. 1 produce, create, originate, make, manufacture: At these stations we can generate 1000 megawatts of electricity. 2 spawn, father, sire, bring into being, procreate, breed, beget, engender, propagate: This one fish would generate millions of offspring if all survived. 3 produce, create, give rise to, inspire, whip up, cause, initiate: Her good fortune generated in him a feeling of envy. 4 produce, create, invent, coin, make up, fabricate, fashion, devise, develop, form, forge, mould, contrive, construct, put together: We must generate a new theory to account for these phenomena.
gentle adj. 1 kind, kindly, mild, tender, benign, moderate, easy, quiet, calm, still, temperate, unruffled, untroubled, undisturbed, tranquil, restful, peaceful, pacific, placid, smooth, lenient, patient, indulgent, soothing, thoughtful, gracious, compassionate, humane, tender-hearted, merciful; soft, light, balmy: Amy is very gentle with the patients. A gentle breeze barely stirred the leaves. The gentle waves belied the terror that lurked below. 2 tame, tractable, docile, manageable, controllable; broken: As he's a beginner, he's been given a gentle mare to ride. 3 gradual, easy, moderate: The car rolled down the gentle slope and stopped.
get-up n. 1 costume, outfit; rig: He came in a diver's get-up. 2 format, layout, arrangement, structure, look, style: Who is responsible for the magazine's new get-up?
giddy adj. 1 dizzy, faint, unsteady, light-headed, vertiginous, reeling, Colloq woozy: This medication may make you feel a bit giddy. 2 silly, frivolous, scatterbrained, flighty, capricious, irresponsible, erratic, fickle, volatile, impulsive, reckless, whimsical: You can't marry a giddy young girl like Peggy.
gist n. essence, core, heart, substance, point, theme, quintessence, pith, meat, marrow, focus, nub, significance, (main or basic) idea; direction, drift: It will save time if I tell you the gist of the argument.
glamour n. allure, fascination, charm, attractiveness, brilliance, glitter, attraction, magnetism, charisma, captivation, desirability, appeal, enchantment, bewitchment, witchcraft, sorcery, magic: Who today can match the glamour of the movie stars of the '30s?
glee n. delight, exuberance, cheerfulness, high or good spirits, cheer, exhilaration, elation, exultation, joy, happiness, rapture, gladness, felicity, pleasure, joyfulness, merriment, jubilation, joyousness, joviality, jollity, gaiety, mirthfulness; enjoyment, satisfaction, Schadenfreude: We watched with great glee as the villain was thwarted.
globe n. 1 earth, world, planet, Terra: Our family is scattered all round the globe. 2 sphere, ball, orb; globule: On the table was a lamp with a green glass globe.
gloss n. 1 explanation, interpretation, exegesis, explication, definition, elucidation, comment, commentary, annotation, critique, criticism, analysis, footnote; translation: Some editions of Shakespeare give glosses of difficult words and phrases at the foot of each page. --v. 2 comment on or upon, explain, interpret, explicate, define, elucidate, annotate, criticize, analyse, review, US critique; translate: Johnson was not the first to gloss the word 'pastern'. 3 See gloss, 4, above.
glutton n. trencherman, gormandizer, gourmand or gormand, overeater, hog, pig, Grangousier, Colloq greedy-guts, Slang Brit gannet, US chowhound: Like the glutton that he is, he asked for more after eating an enormous meal.
gob n. chunk, piece, blob, lump, gobbet, morsel, fragment, bite: She took a gob of peanut butter and spread it on the bread.
godsend n. gift, blessing, benediction, boon, windfall, bonanza, stroke of (good) fortune, piece or bit of (good) luck: The Red Cross parcels were a godsend to the prisoners of war.
good-natured adj. good-humoured, friendly, agreeable, genial, gracious, good-hearted, pleasant, mellow, easygoing, considerate, nice, kind, kindly, kind-hearted, tender-hearted, charitable, tolerant, generous, courteous, cordial, warm, warm-hearted, amiable, amicable, cooperative: He seems a good-natured fellow, but not too bright.
gossip n. 1 chat, conversation, talk, chit-chat, small talk, palaver; tittle-tattle, prattle; Scots clishmaclaver; gup; Colloq Brit natter, chin-wag: I was just having a little gossip with my neighbour. 2 rumour, scandal, hearsay, information, on dit, word, Colloq grapevine, (inside) info, tittle-tattle, Slang dope, Chiefly US scuttlebutt, US and Canadian poop: The latest gossip is that she left him for another woman. 3 rumour-mill, rumour-monger, scandalmonger, gossip-monger, newsmonger, busybody, tattle-tale, quidnunc, blabber, blatherskite, tell-tale, talebearer, flibbertigibbet, Colloq big-mouth, chatterbox, blabbermouth, Nosy Parker: That old gossip will tell everybody your business. --v. 4 Sometimes, gossip about. bruit, tattle, rumour, whisper, blether or US blather, gabble, Colloq blab, Brit natter, Slang jaw: I was just gossiping to my friend about your new job.
gracious adj. kind, courteous, polite, well-mannered, kindly, benevolent, beneficent, indulgent, kind-hearted, warm-hearted, cordial, warm, friendly, sociable, good-natured, amiable, affable, benign, accommodating, obliging, agreeable, considerate: It was gracious of you to grant me an audience.
grand adj. 1 large, great, huge, immense, enormous, impressive, imposing, splendid, fine, majestic, stately, lofty, monumental, lavish, magnificent, opulent, luxurious, palatial, sumptuous, Colloq posh: We were led into a grand hall where thousands awaited the emperor. 2 dignified, distinguished, august, respected, eminent, pre-eminent, outstanding, celebrated, illustrious, renowned, notable, legendary, exalted, revered, venerable, immortal: He is regarded as the grand old man of chemistry. 3 flamboyant, overdone, histrionic, ostentatious, pretentious, grandiose, lordly: The abysmal performance was punctuated by the actors' grand strutting and gesturing. 4 complete, total, sum, comprehensive, (all-)inclusive; bottom-line: The grand total of expenses came to 12,467. 5 marvellous, wonderful, outstanding, first-class, first-rate, splendid, excellent, superb, admirable, Colloq great, marvy, smashing, terrific, fantastic, fabulous, fantabulous, super: Isn't it grand that Freda will be able to go! 6 principal, chief, main, head, leading, foremost, highest: The grand vizier was second only to the caliph.
grasp v. 1 grip, grab, seize, clasp, clutch, snatch, hold, take or lay or catch hold of, Colloq nab: I grasped the rope and was pulled to safety. 2 understand, comprehend, appreciate, catch (on), get, get the drift or point of, follow, see, realize, apprehend, learn, Colloq make head(s) or tail(s) of, Slang dig: I am trying to grasp the full import of what you are saying. --n. 3 hold, grip, clutches, clasp, embrace, lock: He loosened his grasp on my throat and I could breathe again. 4 possession, control, power, mastery, sovereignty, suzerainty, hold: By then, even the outer islands had fallen within his grasp. 5 understanding, comprehension, apprehension, awareness, perception, sense: He has a poor grasp of the basics of the subject.
gratitude n. thankfulness, appreciation, gratefulness; thanks, return, compensation, thanksgiving: Here is a box of chocolates in gratitude for looking after my cat.
greed n. 1 greediness, avarice, avariciousness, covetousness, acquisitiveness, cupidity, avidity, craving, yearning: Greed accounts for most of man's dishonesty. 2 meanness, stinginess, miserliness, selfishness, niggardliness, penuriousness, parsimony, close-fistedness, penny-pinching, tight-fistedness: From a life of greed he had accumulated enormous wealth. 3 gluttony, voraciousness, edacity, esurience, voracity, overeating, gormandizing, ravenousness, insatiableness: Obesity owes more to greed than to glandular disorder.
grievance adj. 1 wrong, ill, injustice, disservice, unfairness, injury, damage, harm, outrage, affront, indignity, hardship, calamity: I had to listen to details of every grievance she had ever suffered. 2 complaint, objection, charge, plaint, allegation, grudge, Colloq gripe, bone to pick, Brit crow to pluck, Slang beef: Please register all your grievances at the office next door.
grisly adj. gruesome, gory, abhorrent, abominable, awful, appalling, hideous, shocking, nasty, dreadful, repulsive, repellent, repugnant, disgusting, sickening, nauseating, horrific, horrid, horrendous, horrifying, terrible, terrifying, terrific: A grisly scene greeted the soldiers who liberated the concentration camp.
gross adj. 1 fat, obese, corpulent, overweight, big, large, bulky, great, heavy, ponderous, massive, cumbersome, unwieldy: The gross detective eased his bulk onto a tiny chair. 2 total, aggregate, entire, pre-tax, (all-)inclusive, overall, whole: The gross profit was up by 15 per cent this year. 3 coarse, vulgar, crude, unsophisticated, uncultured, uncultivated, earthy, crass, indelicate, indecent, inappropriate, unseemly, improper, unrefined, bawdy, ribald, Rabelaisian, raw, rude, offensive, obscene, lewd, dirty, smutty, pornographic, filthy: That was too gross a story for mixed company. 4 outrageous, flagrant, obvious, plain, glaring, shameful, blatant, monstrous, heinous, manifest, evident: Her conviction was a gross miscarriage of justice. 5 disgusting, repulsive, repellent, revolting, nauseating: His table manners are truly gross. --v. 6 earn, bring or take in, make: We grossed over a million but netted only 50,000 after expenses. --n. 7 (overall) total, take, intake, takings, receipts, gate: As I said, the gross was over a million.
growth n. 1 development, evolution, evolvement, cultivation, nurturing, increase, expansion, broadening, extension, enlargement, spread, proliferation, flowering: The growth of education was a slow and painful process. 2 vegetation, crop: The area is covered with a dense growth of timber. 3 advance, advancement, success, improvement, expansion, rise, progress: The growth of the economy has slowed down in the last quarter. 4 wen, excrescence, wart, lump, tumour, swelling, intumescence: He developed an ugly growth on his nose.
guerrilla n. guerilla, partisan or partizan, resistance or freedom or underground fighter, irregular; insurgent, saboteur, terrorist; US history Jayhawker, French history Maquis: The guerrillas continue to attack the government's supply convoys.
gulf n. 1 bay, bight, cove, inlet, sound, loch or sea loch, firth or frith, fiord or fjord, Irish lough, Brit creek: We sailed into the gulf to shelter from the wind behind the cliffs. 2 chasm, deep, depth, abyss, abysm, void, space, opening, rift, breach, gap, separation, rift, split: After the divorce, the gulf between us widened even further.
gust n. 1 puff, blow, wind, breeze, blast: A gust of wind blew my hat off. --v. 2 puff, blow, blast, surge, increase: The wind gusted up to gale force overnight.
habitat n. abode, home, haunt, domain, range, territory, bailiwick, realm, terrain, element, environment, surroundings, Colloq stamping-ground: The winter habitat of the monarch butterfly is in northern Mexico. Curtis doesn't function well outside his natural habitat.
hail v. 1 greet, accost, address, signal, call: Robert hailed us from across the road. 2 cheer, salute, applaud, approve, glorify, praise, laud, honour, acclaim, congratulate, felicitate, acknowledge: He was hailed by all for his charitable work.
half-hearted adj. indifferent, uncaring, unconcerned, lukewarm, uninterested, dispassionate, cool, unenthusiastic, half-baked, nonchalant, phlegmatic, lackadaisical, insouciant: The council has made only a half-hearted effort to solve the problem.
halt n. 1 stop, standstill, end, termination, close, stoppage, cessation: We must call a halt to absenteeism in the factory. --v. 2 stop, quit, end, terminate, cease, check, curb, stem, discontinue, desist, bring or come or draw to an end or close, put an end or stop to, conclude, shut or close down or up: We halted when we came to the river. The guerrillas halted the armoured column at the pass.
handily adv. 1 readily, easily, effortlessly, without strain, comfortably, with both hands tied (behind one's back): Donald handily won the first prize in the poetry competition. 2 skilfully, capably, deftly, cleverly, dexterously, adroitly, expertly, proficiently, masterfully: I could never do that intricate work as handily as she.
hanky-panky n. mischief, trickery, double-dealing, legerdemain, deception, duplicity, chicanery, naughtiness, foolishness, tomfoolery, Colloq funny business, jiggery-pokery, monkey business, shenanigans, goings-on, antics: He'd best not try any of his hanky-panky with the tax inspector.
harass v. badger, harry, hector, trouble, torment, bother, exasperate, hound, plague, persecute, vex, annoy, irritate, pester, worry, beset, bait, nag, pick on or at, tease, torture, Brit chivvvy or chivy or chevy: The police harass me by turning up at all hours for 'help with their inquiries'.
hardy adj. 1 robust, sturdy, strong, rugged, tough, durable, sound, stalwart, stout, vigorous, able-bodied, red-blooded, fit, hale, healthy, Colloq husky: The pioneers were hardy souls. 2 bold, courageous, daring, valorous, valiant, brave, manly, intrepid, fearless, heroic, plucky: He was among the hardy sailors who went with Magellan.
harsh adj. 1 rough, coarse, bristly, scratchy, hairy, crude; hoarse, grating, raucous, rasping, husky, guttural; clashing, inharmonious or unharmonious, discordant, atonal, dissonant, cacophonous, strident, shrill, grinding, sour; bitter, sour, acrid: He found harsh the sights, sounds, tastes, and smells of the Casbah. 2 stern, austere, bleak, dour, unkind, unfeeling, comfortless, uncompassionate, unfriendly, grim, hard, Spartan, stringent, over-exacting, Draconian, tyrannical, stark, severe, cruel, abusive, punishing, punitive, brutal, brutish, inhuman, merciless, ruthless, pitiless: Simon is a very harsh taskmaster. 3 unpleasant, disagreeable, impolite, discourteous, uncivil, rude, nasty, curt, abrupt, brusque, bluff, gruff, curmudgeonly, choleric, splenetic, surly, sullen, irascible, short-tempered, petulant, peevish, waspish, grouchy, bilious, cross, acrimonious, sarcastic, acerbic: Why is Maria so harsh to Alan?
hate v. 1 loathe, abhor, detest, have an aversion to, be averse to, abominate, dislike, execrate, despise, scorn: I hate the smell of petrol, it really turns my stomach. 2 be loath, be reluctant or unwilling or disinclined; resist, shrink or flinch from, dislike, shrink from: I hate to tell you what I really think. She hated revealing Bill's affair to his wife. --n. 3 hatred, abhorrence, loathing, odium, animosity, animus, antipathy, aversion, hostility, antagonism, malice, enmity, detestation: He didn't believe he could feel so much hate for one person.
hazardous adj. unsafe, risky, fraught with danger, questionable, shaky, dangerous, precarious, uncertain, unpredictable, parlous, ticklish, tricky, Colloq chiefly Brit dicey, dicky or dickey, Slang hairy: It took three months to make the hazardous overland journey in those days.
heap n. 1 collection, pile, mound, stack, accumulation, aggregation, agglomeration, congeries, conglomeration, hoard, mass, store, mountain, stockpile, supply, Colloq US and Canadian stash: Donors contributed a huge heap of clothing for the sale. 2 Often, heaps. abundance, plethora, superabundance, lot(s), plenty, great deal, scores, peck, sea, Colloq lashings, load(s), piles, ton(s), raft(s), pots, oodles, scad(s), US and Canadian slew: It was served with heaps of chocolate sauce. Heaps of people bought your record. You're in for a heap of trouble. --v. 3 collect, gather, harvest, reap, glean, garner, pile (up), accumulate, cumulate, aggregate, amass, stockpile, save (up), bank, lay by or up or in, set aside, Colloq stash (away): In autumn, squirrels heap up their supplies of nuts for the winter. 4 shower, load, bestow, give, provide, burden: The grateful prince heaped us with treasure beyond imagination.
hearty adj. 1 genial, warm, kind-hearted, affectionate, amiable, amicable, friendly, affable, cordial, open, convivial: I was greeted by a hearty welcome when I returned. 2 genuine, unfeigned, authentic, sincere, heartfelt, warm, wholehearted, honest, earnest, devout, stalwart, stout: Please give Desmond my hearty congratulations. 3 enthusiastic, vigorous, energetic, eager, zealous, exuberant, robust, active, animated, strong: They are hearty supporters of our cause. 4 abundant, ample, substantial, solid, sizeable, satisfying, square; nourishing, invigorating, strengthening: On Sundays, we had a hearty meal at midday when we could afford it. 5 healthy, hale, vigorous, robust, strong, sound: Well, Eric, now that you're over your malaria you appear to be quite hearty.
heavy-handed adj. 1 awkward, clumsy, inept, maladroit, unskilful, ungraceful, graceless, bungling: She made a heavy-handed attempt to apologize. 2 autocratic, imperious, magisterial, overbearing, despotic, dictatorial, tyrannical, oppressive, domineering, iron-handed, harsh, severe: For more than 30 years he exercised heavy-handed control over the country.
height n. 1 altitude, elevation, level; tallness: At what height is the second camp on Mount Everest? The height of the skyscrapers impressed me. 2 acme, crest, pinnacle, top, zenith, apogee, peak, apex, maximum, high point, summit, climax, culmination, extreme: Popularity of that style reached its height in the 1930s. His remark reflected the height of arrogance. 3 Often, heights. elevation, mound, hill, eminence, prominence, mountain, peak, crag, summit; tor, cliff, bluff, promontory, escarpment, scarp, headland, No. Brit fell: As we gazed down from the heights, the villages seemed tiny.
helpless adj. 1 dependent, vulnerable, weak, helpless, feeble, infirm, lame, crippled, disabled: The disease has left him completely helpless. 2 confused, baffled, mystified, bewildered, perplexed, at sea, confounded, muddled, nonplussed: I am completely helpless when it comes to balancing my accounts. 3 weakened, weak, debilitated, faint, enfeebled, feeble, worn out, spent, exhausted, prostrate, enervated: All of us were simply helpless from laughing so much. 4 worthless, incapable, incompetent, useless, unavailing, inefficient, inept, unfit, unqualified: Dali was said to be helpless without Gala to manage his affairs.
heretical adj. unorthodox, heterodox, impious, freethinking, heretic, apostate or apostatical, iconoclastic, schismatic, sceptic, agnostic, atheist(ic), idolatrous, heathen, pagan, infidel, godless: The purpose of the Inquisition was to discover and suppress heretical views.
hesitate v. 1 delay, hold or hang back, pause, dilly-dally, wait, temporize, think twice, balk, boggle at, shrink from, demur, scruple, Brit haver, jib, Colloq stall: He who hesitates is lost. 2 fumble, equivocate, tergiversate, fluctuate, alternate, waver, dither, vacillate, shilly-shally: He hesitated between the doors - did this one conceal the lady or the tiger? 3 stammer, stutter, falter, sputter, splutter, stumble, hem and haw: She hesitated throughout the speech purely from stage fright.
highbrow n. 1 scholar, intellectual, savant, sage, mastermind, genius; aesthete, connoisseur, Colloq egghead, brain: Many who pretend to deride highbrows secretly envy them. --adj. 2 scholarly, intellectual, learned, erudite, deep, bookish, cultured, sophisticated, cultivated, aesthetic, Colloq brainy: Books on philosophy are too highbrow for the market we cater to.
hint n. 1 suggestion, clue, implication, inkling, indication, tip, tip-off, intimation, allusion, innuendo, insinuation; pointer, help, advice: The quiz-master gave me a hint and I got the answer at once. 2 trace, suggestion, touch, taste, breath, dash, soupon, whiff, undertone, tinge, whisper: Which government has ever served without any hint of scandal? --v. 3 suggest, imply, indicate, tip (off), intimate, allude, insinuate, mention, clue, cue, signal, refer, advert: She hinted that I might appeal to her sister.
hit v. 1 strike, cuff, smack, knock, whack, bash, bang, thump, thwack, punch, buffet, slap, swat, bludgeon, club, smite; spank, thrash, beat, pummel, batter, flog, scourge, birch, cane, lash, belabour, flagellate, whip, horsewhip, cudgel, Archaic fustigate; Colloq belt, wallop, clobber, clout, sock, clip, crown, bop, conk, paste, lambaste, zap: She hit him on the jaw and he went down. 2 strike, bat, swat, knock, drive, propel: He hit the ball over the heads of the fielders. 3 strike, collide or impact with, run or smash or crash into, bump or bang into: The car went off the road and hit a tree. 4 affect, touch, stir, move, wound, hurt, strike or hit home, make or leave an impression or a mark on, (make an) impact (on): The new taxes hit the wealthy more than the poor. 5 dawn on, enter one's mind, occur to, strike: It finally hit Graham that he had been insulted. 6 reach, attain, arrive at, gain, achieve: Those who have hit eighty know the meaning of old age. She hit the jackpot this week. 7 experience, encounter, meet (with): It was at that point that we hit a snag in the negotiations. 8 Also, hit up. importune, beseech, petition, beg, implore, entreat, ask for: As usual, Guthrie hit me for a loan as soon as we met. 9 hit on or upon. a come or happen or chance or light on or upon, discover, find, uncover, unearth, stumble or blunder on or upon, arrive at: After years of experimentation, the Curies hit upon pitchblende as a source of radium. b devise, think of or up, invent, dream up, come up with, work out, see, perceive, detect, discern, find: I have hit upon a way to counteract the force of gravity. --n. 10 impact, collision; blow, punch, knock, strike, swat, shot, smack, bump, bang, Colloq whack, thwack, conk, bop, sock: The weakness of the hit caused only a slight dent in my car door. The boxer reeled after a hard hit to the midriff. 11 success, triumph, coup, winner, sensation, Colloq smash (hit), sell-out: After opening in the West End the musical became a hit on Broadway. 12 kick, jolt, thrill, Slang charge, US rush, bang: Give me a hit off that reefer.
hoggish adj. piggish, greedy, avaricious, insatiable, gluttonous, voracious, edacious, acquisitive, possessive, self-seeking, selfish: Don't be so hoggish; share the cake with the others.
holocaust n. 1 conflagration, fire-storm, inferno, fire; destruction, devastation: When the volcano exploded, few escaped the holocaust. 2 genocide, mass murder, massacre, blood bath, pogrom, butchery, carnage, annihilation, extinction, extermination, eradication, elimination: Survivors of the Nazi holocaust hold periodic memorial services.
homicidal adj. murderous, lethal, deadly, death-dealing, mortal, blood-thirsty, sanguinary, ferocious, maniacal, berserk, amok or amuck, mad, insane: The doctors say he is homicidal and should be institutionalized.
honour n. 1 integrity, honesty, fairness, justness, probity, uprightness, decency, goodness, righteousness, rectitude, justice, morality, principles, virtuousness, virtue: Doing the right thing is a matter of honour. 2 respect, esteem, reverence, veneration, approbation, deference, admiration, homage, regard, accolade, praise, kudos, fame, glory, celebrity, distinction, prestige, illustriousness: Great honour accompanies the award of a Nobel prize. 3 privilege, distinction, pleasure, joy, delight; credit, blessing: I have the honour to introduce tonight's speaker. It has been an honour to serve under you, Admiral. 4 virginity, chastity, virtue, purity, innocence: How did she manage to preserve her honour when fighting with the partisans? --v. 5 respect, esteem, revere, venerate, adulate, adore, worship, approve, prize, value, defer to, admire, pay homage to: Albert Schweitzer was much honoured in the latter part of his life. 6 praise, laud, glorify, celebrate, eulogize, salute, hail, acclaim, ennoble, dignify, exalt: We have come together to honour those who have died for their country. 7 keep, maintain, carry out, live up to, discharge, fulfil, observe, meet: She has done her best to honour her obligations. 8 pay, redeem, accept, clear, cash: The bank refused to honour his cheque because of 'insufficient funds'.
hopefully adv. 1 expectantly, optimistically, sanguinely, confidently: Jocelyn set off hopefully for the party. 2 with (any) luck, if things go well, all being well, it is hoped, expectedly: Hopefully, we shall arrive in time to catch the train.
hospitable adj. 1 welcoming, gracious, courteous, genial, friendly, agreeable, amicable, cordial, warm, congenial, sociable, generous: It was most hospitable of you to invite me. 2 open-minded, receptive, amenable, approachable, tolerant: The director is always hospitable to suggestions for improving sales.
hot adj. 1 fiery, white-hot, red-hot, piping hot, burning, blistering, scorching, roasting, frying, sizzling, searing, boiling, scalding, steaming, simmering, torrid, sweltering, sultry, heated: The hot, molten steel is cast into ingots here. During the day it is hot, but it cools down at night. 2 spicy, peppery, sharp, piquant, pungent, biting, acrid: She likes very hot food, with plenty of chilli. 3 intense, fervent, zealous, ardent, enthusiastic, passionate, fervid, vehement, excited, animated; impetuous, fiery, fierce, inflamed, sharp, violent: He had some hot words with the foreman who had dismissed him. 4 eager, keen, avid, anxious, burning; intense, fervent, zealous, ardent, enthusiastic, passionate, fervid, vehement, excited, animated, earnest, Slang US gung-ho: Desmond set out in hot pursuit of the thief. 5 recent, fresh, new, latest, brand-new: The hottest gossip is that she is marrying for the seventh time. 6 popular, sought-after, commercial, saleable, marketable: The publisher believes Zenobia's Memoirs to be the hot property of the year. 7 lustful, lecherous, libidinous, lubricous or lubricious, sensual, concupiscent, prurient, licentious, oversexed, sex-crazed, sex-mad, Archaic lickerish, horn-mad, Slang horny, Chiefly Brit randy, US hard up: They were really hot, not having been with anyone of the opposite sex for months. 8 intense, vivid, striking, bright, brilliant, dazzling, loud: That hot pink lipstick looks good with your suntan. 9 electrified, live, charged, powered: The hot wire connects to the other terminal - I think. 10 dangerous, precarious, risky, sensitive, delicate, unstable, touchy, unpredictable: The situation is getting a bit too hot to handle. --v. 11 hot up. intensify, build up, heighten, increase, worsen, warm up, heat up: The environment is hotting up as a political issue.
hound v. bully, browbeat, persecute, nag, harass, annoy, pester, harry, badger: Although he was found innocent, his neighbours hounded him so much that he had to leave town.
hub n. centre, focus, focal point, pivot, heart, core, nucleus, nave: This is the hub of the city, around which everything else moves.
hull n. 1 framework, skeleton, frame, structure, body: The hull of the ship completed, we added the superstructure. 2 shell, pod, case, husk, skin, peel, rind, US shuck: Squirrels carefully nibble through the hull of the nut to get at the kernel inside. --v. 3 shell, peel, skin, husk, US shuck: We hulled all the nuts and they are now ready for the fruit cake.
humiliation n. disgrace, shame, mortification, dishonour, ignominy, indignity, discredit, loss of face, obloquy, abasement, depreciation, detraction, degradation, derogation, belittlement, disparagement, shaming, embarrassment, humbling: He had to suffer the humiliation of being drummed out of the corps.
hunt v. 1 chase, pursue, dog, hound, stalk, trail, track (down), trace; course: The jewel thieves were hunted across three continents. 2 Also, hunt for or up or out or through. seek (out), search (for), go in search of or for, look (high and low) for, quest after, go in quest of, scour, ransack, investigate, pry into, go over or through with a fine-tooth comb, examine, explore, Colloq US check out: Detectives hunted the carpet for clues. She is hunting a job in publishing. I have hunted for the ring but cannot find it. Can you hunt up someone to fill the vacancy? Hunt through your pockets again for the key. --n. 3 chase, pursuit, tracking (down), stalking, hunting; course: The ten-year hunt for the thieves continues. 4 search, quest: My hunt ended when I found the ring.
hurtful adj. 1 harmful, injurious, detrimental, pernicious, prejudicial, disadvantageous, damaging, deleterious, destructive, noisome, noxious, baneful, mischievous: Efficient government is advantageous to many and hurtful to none. 2 nasty, cruel, cutting, malicious, mean, unkind, wounding, spiteful: He made some hurtful accusations about the librarian's efficiency.
hygienic adj. clean, sanitary, sterile, disinfected, germ-free, aseptic, pure: It is essential that hygienic surroundings be maintained in hospitals.
icing n. 1 frosting, glaze, coating: Our favourite treat was chocolate cake with chocolate icing. 2 bonus, (fringe) benefit, reward, (extra) added attraction, extra, reward, dividend: He clinched a seventh victory with his partner, putting the icing on the cake of their shared world championship.
identification n. 1 connection, recognition, distinguishing, indication, perception, detection, selection, naming, labelling, pinpointing, designation, characterization, denomination; authentication, verification, establishment, certification, substantiation, corroboration, Colloq fingering: Her identification of him as her attacker is not sufficient to convict him. 2 classification, classifying, cataloguing, categorization, categorizing, pigeon-holing: How much time is needed for the identification of the minerals in the moon rocks? 3 ID, ID card, identity card, badge, credentials: Only up-to-date identification will be accepted as proof of ownership. 4 connection, association, affiliation, empathy, sympathy, rapport, relationship: His continued identification with comic-book heroes is immature.
idly adv. 1 unproductively, lazily, indolently: She wanders about the shops, idly whiling away the hours. 2 offhandedly, unconsciously, mechanically, thoughtlessly, unthinkingly, obliviously, insensibly, indifferently: He sat quietly, his fingers idly drumming on the tabletop.
ill-advised adj. 1 inadvisable, ill-judged, injudicious, ill-considered, misguided, unwise, imprudent, inappropriate, unpropitious, inexpedient, impolitic, wrong-headed, thoughtless; indiscreet: It would be ill-advised to sell your house at this time. 2 hasty, rash, reckless, impetuous, rash, foolhardy, incautious, short-sighted, improvident: Driving without a seat belt is ill-advised.
illness n. sickness, disease, disorder, affliction, ailment, malady, complaint, infirmity, disability, indisposition, affection, Colloq bug: His illness is serious but not contagious.
illustrious adj. distinguished, famous, noted, renowned, famed, eminent, well-known, prominent, important, notable, respected, esteemed, venerable, honoured, acclaimed, celebrated, great: He belongs in the same category as other illustrious generals, like Kitchener.
imitate v. 1 mimic, copy, ape, parrot, monkey, emulate, impersonate, do an impression of; echo, simulate: Cruikshank was imitating the boss, who walked in at that very moment. His style imitates that of Carlyle. 2 copy, mimic, mock, parody, satirize, burlesque, caricature, travesty, Colloq spoof, take off, Brit send up: In Hudibras, Samuel Butler imitated the style of the heroic epic.
immense adj. enormous, gigantic, extensive, vast, huge, massive, voluminous, tremendous, staggering, stupendous, mammoth, colossal, giant, titanic, Cyclopean, jumbo, elephantine, Brobdingnagian, Slang US humongous: Our exit from the cave was blocked by an immense boulder.
immortalize v. celebrate, honour, glorify, memorialize, commemorate, apotheosize, canonize, beatify, exalt, ennoble, extol: Dickens's father was immortalized as Mr Micawber.
impale v. spear, stab, pierce, skewer, spit, stick, transfix, spike: They impaled the heads of their enemies on poles as a warning.
impeccable adj. faultless, flawless, perfect, ideal, pure, correct, proper, spotless, immaculate, unblemished, spotless, unimpeachable, blameless: His lectures, though impeccable in content and style, lacked fire.
imperial adj. 1 kingly, kinglike, queenly, queenlike, princely, princelike, regal, royal, sovereign: The imperial court was rich and splendid. 2 majestic, royal, regal, lofty, exalted, supreme, august, noble, superior, imposing, splendid, magnificent, grand, excellent: Her imperial presence outshone all at the ball.
implacable adj. unappeasable, unmollifiable, unpacifiable, unforgiving, intractable, uncompromising, inflexible, inexorable, unyielding, unrelenting, ruthless, cruel, pitiless, merciless, hard, rigid, unsympathetic, uncompassionate: Ever since that incident at school he has been my implacable enemy.
impolite adj. discourteous, ill-mannered, uncivil, rude, ungracious, ungentlemanly, unladylike, pert, disrespectful, saucy, boorish, churlish, crude, indecorous, indelicate, unrefined, ill-bred, vulgar, coarse: The waiter was so impolite that I refused him a tip.
impossible adj. 1 hopeless, impracticable, inconceivable, unimaginable, unthinkable, unattainable, unsuitable, out of the question, unachievable, unrealizable, unworkable, unresolvable, unsolvable: Reading of the cipher is impossible without a key. 2 absurd, ludicrous, preposterous, ridiculous, illogical, unworkable, outrageous, farcical, outlandish, crazy, weird: Inventors came up with the most impossible designs for aeroplanes.
impregnable adj. invulnerable, impenetrable, inviolable, unconquerable, invincible, unbeatable, indomitable, secure, safe, mighty, well-fortified: The walls of the castle, sixteen feet thick, were impregnable.
improbable adj. doubtful, dubious, unlikely, questionable, unrealistic, far-fetched, remote, implausible, unthinkable, hard to believe or imagine, inconceivable, unbelievable, fanciful, incredible, ridiculous, ludicrous, absurd, crazy, mad, insane, wild, weird, peculiar, strange; impossible; Colloq fishy: It is improbable that they will marry. He gave the most improbable excuses.
impudence n. impertinence, effrontery, insolence, disrespect, presumption, presumptuousness, audacity, shamelessness, pertness, sauciness, boldness, brazenness, incivility, rudeness, impoliteness, Colloq lip, gall, guff, sauce, mouth, Brit backchat, side, US back talk, Slang chutzpah: He had the impudence to suggest that I was too old for the job!
inaccessible adj. 1 unavailable, unobtainable, unattainable, unreachable, unapproachable: The minister has made himself inaccessible for interviews. 2 impenetrable, impassable, out-of-the-way: The tomb lies in a part of the jungle inaccessible except by air.
inane adj. silly, asinine, vapid, vacant, vacuous, absurd, fatuous, foolish, senseless, nonsensical, unreasonable, preposterous, ludicrous, ridiculous, laughable, risible, mad, lunatic, crazy, stupid, dumb, idiotic, moronic, imbecilic, Colloq nutty, nuts, daft, daffy, screwy, batty, dippy, wacky, cuckoo, loony, goofy, Brit bonkers, dotty: Students seem especially prone to inane behaviour.
inauspicious adj. unpromising, unlucky, unfortunate, unfavourable, unpropitious, untoward, ill-starred, ominous, ill-omened, ill-fated, portentous, menacing, doomed, sinister, dark, gloomy, cloudy, clouded, black: The middle of a recession is an inauspicious time to set up a business.
incidental adj. 1 casual, chance, fortuitous, aleatory, random, haphazard, serendipitous, unpredictable, accidental, adventitious, unplanned, unlooked-for, Colloq fluky: Any good that came from the war was incidental. 2 subordinate, secondary, ancillary, minor, lesser, non-essential, unimportant, trivial, negligible, inconsequential, insignificant, petty, trifling, paltry: The incidental events were not covered by the press.
inclination n. 1 bow, bowing, bend, bending, nod, nodding, tilt, tilting: His tacit sign of recognition was an inclination of his head. 2 slope, slant, angle, bend, incline, tilt: The inclination of the track is far too steep for such a vehicle. 3 disposition, predisposition, tendency, bent, bias, leaning, preference, turn, cast, proclivity, propensity, attitude, proneness, susceptibility, predilection, partiality, affection, taste, liking, desire, velleity: His inclination in favour of the offer is largely instinctive. 4 desire, longing, craving, appetite, taste, stomach, sympathy, predilection, penchant, fancy, eagerness, enthusiasm, zeal, fervour, ardour: I have no inclination to watch open-heart surgery.
incombustible adj. non-flammable, non-inflammable, fireproof, non-combustible; flame-proof: She has to wear incombustible clothing at her job.
incomprehensible adj. unintelligible, unfathomable, impenetrable, deep, abstruse, arcane, recondite, indecipherable, undecipherable, inscrutable, cryptic, obscure, opaque, dark, occult, perplexing, mysterious, mystifying, enigmatic, puzzling, over (someone's) head, baffling, unimaginable, inconceivable: They spoke in Swahili, an incomprehensible language to me.
inconspicuous adj. unnoticeable, unnoticed, unobtrusive, unostentatious, insignificant, indefinite, indistinguishable, undistinguished; modest, unassuming, discreet: Wearing a grey coat and hat, he was quite inconspicuous in the crowd. He played an inconspicuous role in the entire affair.
incorrigible adj. bad, naughty, villainous, wicked, sinful, hopeless; intractable, unchangeable, unalterable, habitual, inveterate, incurable, stubborn, hardened, obdurate, inflexible, uncontrollable: When a teenager, Giles was absolutely incorrigible. Among other things, he was an incorrigible liar.
incumbent adj. 1 obligatory, necessary, required, mandatory, compulsory, binding, demanding, commanding, prescribed: As their father, you ought to feel it incumbent on you to talk to the children's teachers. 2 office-holding: The incumbent chairman is not responsible for his predecessor's mistakes. --n. 3 office-holder, official, occupant: As the incumbent, you have a better chance of being re-elected.
indefinite adj. 1 uncertain, undetermined, undefined, imprecise, inexact, inexplicit, unspecified, unsettled, unfixed, unspecific, non-specific, vague, general, indeterminate, undecided, sub judice: The time of the meeting was indefinite. 2 vague, unclear, obscure, confused, confusing, puzzling, baffling, cryptic, bewildering, mystifying, equivocal, ambiguous, unspecific, non-specific, inexplicit, inexact, imprecise: Your directions for getting here were too indefinite. 3 ill-defined, undefined, blurred, blurry, hazy, indistinct, obscure, dim, fuzzy, unrecognizable, indistinguishable: Indefinite shapes loomed in the fog. 4 unlimited, unknown, uncounted, uncountable, undefinable, indeterminate, indeterminable, unbounded, boundless, immeasurable, incalculable, limitless, endless, infinite: He pondered the indefinite capacities of the mind. 5 hesitant, vague, shilly-shallying, vacillating, indecisive, undecided, inconstant, wavering, unsure, uncertain, Colloq wishy-washy: She is still indefinite about going to the party.
index n. 1 guide, directory, list, listing, table of contents, catalogue, key, thesaurus: To find synonyms for a word in this book, look first in the index. 2 mark, sign, clue, token, hint, pointer, indicator, indication, guide: An index to his feelings can be seen in the way he treats people. 3 index finger, forefinger, first finger; pointer, marker, needle, Chiefly Brit typography hand, Chiefly US typography fist: Use an index to emphasize important paragraphs. 4 ratio, measure, formula, factor: The cephalic index is the ratio of the width of a skull to its length multiplied by 100.
indigenous adj. 1 native, local, autochthonous, endemic, natural, aboriginal, original: The indigenous inhabitants were displaced by marauding tribes. 2 innate, inborn, inbred, inherent: It is often difficult to distinguish between man's indigenous and his acquired characteristics.
indiscretion n. 1 imprudence, tactlessness, improvidence, injudiciousness, rashness, recklessness, audacity, boldness, temerity, impulsiveness, hastiness, haste, impetuousness, impetuosity, thoughtlessness, insensitivity, heedlessness, carelessness, navety, foolishness, foolhardiness, folly: He was guilty of indiscretion in talking to the press about the confidential report. 2 blunder, error, mistake, slip, lapse, misstep, gaffe, faux pas, peccadillo, Colloq boner, Brit bloomer: He spent much of his adult life paying for the indiscretions of his youth.
individualist n. independent, freethinker, nonconformist, maverick, loner, lone wolf: Nick is an individualist and seldom agrees with the majority.
induct v. 1 install or instal, inaugurate, invest, instate, establish, swear in: Crocker was inducted as president of the lodge last night. 2 call up, enlist, conscript, enrol, register, US draft: He was inducted into the army at 18.
ineffectual adj. 1 unsuccessful, unavailing, futile, bootless, sterile, barren, fruitless, unproductive, ineffective, inefficacious, inoperative: Our efforts to deal with pollution have been largely ineffectual. 2 weak, feeble, effete, impotent, tame, lame, powerless, inefficient, incompetent, inadequate: We tried to read the inscription by the ineffectual light of a match.
inestimable adj. 1 incalculable, immeasurable, measureless, untold, incomputable; priceless, invaluable, precious: You have been of inestimable help in completing the project on time. 2 countless, innumerable, vast, immense, prodigious, boundless, unfathomable, infinite, incalculable, immeasurable, measureless, untold, incomputable: An inestimable number of organisms have inhabited the earth.
inexpressible adj. unutterable, ineffable, unspeakable, indescribable, indefinable: I felt inexpressible joy at seeing my children again.
infatuated adj. fascinated, beguiled, enchanted, bewitched, spellbound, charmed, ensorcelled, enraptured, possessed, hypnotized, mesmerized, captivated, besotted, taken with, obsessed, smitten, enamoured, fond: Francis is completely infatuated with the girl who moved in next door.
infest v. invade, plague, beset, overrun, overspread, flood, swarm over, inundate, pervade, permeate, penetrate, infiltrate: Mosquitoes infested this area before the swamp was drained.
inflamed adj. irritated, sore, angry, chafing, chafed, red, swollen, heated, hot, fevered, feverish, infected, septic: The wound became inflamed and we had no medicine to reduce the infection.
influential adj. powerful, weighty, strong, forceful, effective, effectual, efficacious, instrumental, telling, significant, persuasive, dominant, leading, guiding, authoritative, predominant, important, substantial, prestigious, significant, controlling: He comes from an influential family. What factors were influential in reaching your decision?
infringe v. 1 violate, contravene, break, disobey, transgress, overstep: Publication of this article has infringed her right to a fair trial. 2 infringe on or upon. intrude on, impinge on, trespass on, encroach on, invade: Never let pleasure infringe on the domain of duty.
ingratitude n. unthankfulness, ungratefulness, thanklessness, unappreciativeness, non-recognition: Despite the favours they had received, they showed their ingratitude by refusing to contribute to the fund drive.
inhibit v. discourage, repress, frustrate, hold back, bridle, curb, control, govern, hinder, restrain, impede, obstruct, interfere with, check, prevent, bar, stop: Her sad look inhibited my expression of delight at seeing her again.
initiative n. 1 first move or step, lead, opening move: Hogan took the initiative by winning the first set. 2 enterprise, aggressiveness, drive, ambition, ambitiousness, resourcefulness, leadership, dynamism, energy, vigour, hustle, lan, Colloq get-up-and-go, pep, snap, zip, zing: At least she had the initiative to get the company back on a profitable basis.
inmate n. prisoner, convict, captive, jailbird or Brit also gaolbird, Slang Brit lag; patient, case; inhabitant, occupant, resident: The inmates were fed on bread and water in those days. Inmates at the sanatorium are well treated.
inquisitive adj. 1 inquiring, curious, probing, questioning, interested, investigative, searching, exploring, analytical: Children have a naturally inquisitive nature. 2 prying, intrusive, Colloq snooping, snoopy, nosy or nosey: Don't be so inquisitive about things that don't concern you!
insight n. perception, percipience, sensitivity, perspicacity, perceptiveness, perspicaciousness, discernment, acuteness, acuity, acumen, sharpness, understanding, judgement, comprehension, vision: Chambers has brought his considerable insight to bear on this complex problem.
inspect v. examine, scrutinize, study, scan, survey, vet, check (up (on) or out), investigate, pore over; peruse: The customs man inspected every last inch of our luggage.
instead adv. 1 as an alternative or a substitute: She wanted me to go but I stayed instead. 2 instead of. alternatively, preferably, in preference to, in place of, in lieu of, rather than, as a substitute for; as contrasted with, as opposed to: Instead of going to the cinema we went to the theatre.
instructive adj. informative, informational, informatory, educational, instructional, helpful, revealing, edifying, enlightening, illuminating: Studying the mistakes of others can be highly instructive.
insulate v. 1 detach, separate, isolate, segregate, shelter, preserve, set or keep apart, sequester, sequestrate, quarantine: The rock star's aides did their best to insulate her from her screaming fans. 2 lag, protect, shield, cushion, wrap, cover: Insulate the pipes to prevent heat loss. Insulate the wire with this tape. Nitroglycerine must be insulated from shock.
intellect n. 1 rationality, reason, reasonableness, (common) sense, understanding, judgement, cleverness, intelligence, mind, Colloq brains: You have the intellect, my boy, but it wants developing. 2 See intellectual, 3.
intensify v. concentrate, focus, sharpen, whet, strengthen, reinforce, heighten, escalate, deepen, quicken, emphasize, magnify, increase, augment, double, redouble, heat up, Colloq step up, Brit hot up: We must intensify our efforts to effect a settlement of the crisis. The war is intensifying.
intercourse n. 1 commerce, traffic, trade, dealings, exchange, communication, contact, interaction: In normal business intercourse our paths often cross. 2 sexual intercourse, coitus, coition, sexual congress or union, mating, copulation, sexual relations, carnal knowledge, making love, lovemaking, intimacy, sexual connection, Colloq sex: The plaintiff admits engaging in intercourse with the defendant.
interlude n. interval, entr'acte, intermission, pause, stop, stoppage, respite, interruption, break, hiatus, lacuna, gap, halt, wait, breathing-space, recess, rest, spell, lull, Colloq let-up: There is a ten-minute interlude between the acts.
interrogation n. questioning, examination, cross-examination, inquisition, investigation, Colloq third degree, grilling: Caught by the rebels, we were subjected to hours of interrogation.
intolerance n. bias, prejudice, bigotry, discrimination, partiality, illiberality, narrow-mindedness, dogmatism; racism, racialism, sexism, classism, ageism, xenophobia: The government has legislated against intolerance of minorities.
intrinsic adj. inherent, basic, fundamental, essential, proper, elemental, organic, natural, native, inbred, congenital, inherited, hereditary, innate, inborn, immanent, indwelling, underlying, constitutional; real, true, actual, genuine: As no painting has intrinsic worth, its value is arbitrary.
invalid adj. void, null (and void), nullified, annulled, repudiated, untrue, false, faulty, erroneous, wrong, spurious; incorrect, imperfect, impaired, unsound, untenable, ineffective: He was driving with an invalid licence. Your reasons for quitting school are invalid.
investigation n. enquiry or inquiry, examination, study, review, exploration, quest, search, probe, research, discovery procedure, scrutiny, analysis, inquest, inquisition, interrogation, questioning: Has the investigation turned up any evidence of collusion?
involved adj. 1 implicated, concerned, affected, interested, active: The public enquiry was attended by all involved members of the community. 2 tangled, complicated, complex, twisted, snarled, convoluted, confused, confusing, intricate, tortuous, elaborate, knotty, Byzantine, labyrinthine: The plot is too involved to be followed easily. The involved problems of adolescence cannot be treated in a one-day conference. 3 involved with. associated with, entangled with, embroiled with, enmeshed with, Colloq mixed up with: Dennis is still very much involved with that singer from the Green Dragon.
irresolute adj. vacillating, wavering, faltering, indecisive, infirm of purpose, in or US only of two minds, undecided, hesitant, hesitating, shifting, changing, erratic, uncertain, unsure, undetermined, unresolved, half-hearted, Colloq wishy-washy: You must act; this is no time to be irresolute.
irritate v. annoy, vex, nettle, pester, provoke, bother, anger, enrage, chafe, pique, exasperate, ruffle, hector, harass, harry, nag, plague, worry, fret, fluster, trouble, pick at or on, Colloq needle, get under (someone's) skin, get in (someone's) hair, hassle, peeve, get on (someone's) nerves, drive (someone) up the wall, get (someone's) hackles up, get (someone's) back up, drive (someone) crazy or mad, rub (someone) (up) the wrong way, Brit get up (someone's) nose, US burn (someone) up: All these stupid questions are beginning to irritate me.
jabber v. 1 blether or US only blather, chatter, babble, gibber, gabble, prate, prattle, patter, drivel, rattle, Brit natter, Scots yatter, Colloq gab, gas, yap, witter: The couple behind me jabbered throughout the entire film. --n. 2 See jargon, 2.
jangle v. 1 clatter, clash, rattle, clang, clank, crash, ring, jingle: The chains jangled as the prisoners marched to their cells. 2 jar, upset, irritate: The continuous screaming of the sirens jangled my nerves. --n. 3 jangling, clatter, clash, rattle, jarring, clang, clanging, clank, clanking, crash, clangour, noise, din, racket, clamour, dissonance, cacophony, reverberation, Literary stridor: I heard the jangle of the rag-and-bone man's cart in the next street.
jeer v. 1 Often, jeer at. mock, laugh or scoff or sneer (at), flout, deride, ridicule, make fun of, thumb one's nose at, gibe or jibe, chaff, decry, twit, taunt, Colloq rag, bullyrag, roast, Brit cock a snook at, Brit and Australian barrack, Slang knock: Don't jeer at aromatherapy till you've tried it. --n. 2 taunt, gibe or jibe, aspersion, hoot, hiss, boo, catcall; derision, ridicule, obloquy: Just because he was fat, Christopher had to suffer the jeers of his classmates.
jilt v. throw over, reject, dismiss, drop, discard, desert, break (up) with, forsake, abandon, Colloq ditch, dump, brush off or give (someone) the brush-off, Chiefly US and Canadian give (someone) his or her walking papers: Angela met Tony and promptly jilted Mike.
joint n. 1 seam, union, juncture, connection, junction, intersection: The joint won't show after the whole thing's been painted. 2 Slang dive, dump, US and Canadian honky-tonk: We went into a joint in Soho, looking for some action. 3 roast: Who carves the Sunday joint at your house? --adj. 4 shared, mutual, combined, collective, cooperative, common, communal, collaborative: Our aims can only be achieved by joint effort.
journalist n. reporter, newspaperman, newspaperwoman, correspondent, newsman, newswoman, member of the fourth estate, gentleman or lady of the press, stringer; columnist; hack; newscaster, anchorman, anchorwoman, commentator, broadcaster, Brit pressman, paragraphist; newsreader, Colloq scribe, newsmonger, US and Canadian legman, news-hawk, news-hound, news-hen: Journalists crowded round the minister, urging her to make a statement.
judicious adj. sensible, commonsensical, sound, sober, intelligent, aware, enlightened, wise, sage, sapient, thoughtful, reasonable, rational, sane, logical, discerning, discriminating, discriminative, astute, perceptive, percipient, perspicacious, well-advised, (well-)informed, prudent, discreet, tactful, diplomatic, politic, careful, considered, circumspect: The treasurer was considered not to have made judicious use of the club's funds.
jumpy adj. nervous, agitated, anxious, jittery, fidgety, restless, edgy, on edge, tense, shaky, skittish, fretful, uneasy, queasy, restive, panicky: Do you think he was jumpy because we were approaching Count Dracula's castle?
justify v. vindicate, legitimate, legitimatize or legitimize, legalize, rationalize, substantiate, defend, support, uphold, sustain, validate, warrant, confirm; excuse, explain, absolve, acquit, exculpate: My worst fears were justified. How can you justify owning three cars?
keg n. cask, barrel, butt, hogshead, tun, puncheon: We bought a keg of beer for the party.
killjoy n. spoilsport, damper, dampener, grouch, grump, malcontent, pessimist, cynic, prophet of doom, Cassandra, Colloq wet blanket, sourpuss, US party pooper, gloomy Gus, picklepuss: Go to the dance and stop being such a killjoy!
kingdom n. 1 realm, empire, sovereignty, principality, monarchy: He sought a suitable wife throughout the kingdom. 2 field, area, domain, province, sphere (of influence), territory, bailiwick, Colloq turf: The operating theatre is the surgeon's kingdom.
kitty n. pot, pool, collection: Has he contributed anything to the kitty?
knot n. 1 snarl, gnarl, tangle; tie, bond: I cannot loosen this knot. 2 collection, assemblage, aggregation, congregation, crowd, cluster, bunch, gathering, company, band, gang, crowd, throng: A small knot of people were standing in front of my painting. --v. 3 fasten, tie, bind, secure, lash, tether, affix, fix, attach: I knotted the rope around his neck.
labour n. 1 toil, (hard) work, travail, exertion, effort, laboriousness, strain, drudgery, pains, industry, slavery, donkey-work, Colloq sweat, grind, elbow-grease, Brit swot: They know the labour involved in building a road. 2 employees, workers, wage-earners, labourers: A meeting between labour and management is scheduled for today. 3 effort, task, job, chore, undertaking: Raising funds for the museum was a labour of love. 4 travail, childbirth, parturition, labour pains, contractions, delivery: She went into labour at midnight, and the twins were born just after four. --v. 5 work, toil, travail, drudge, strain, strive, struggle, slave, Colloq sweat, grind, Brit peg away (at), swot: We laboured hard to get where we are today. 6 dwell on, overdo, overemphasize, harp on, overstress, strain, Colloq belabour: I heard you the first time, so don't labour the point. 7 labour under. be burdened or troubled or distressed by, be deluded or deceived by, be disadvantaged by, suffer, endure: He is labouring under a misapprehension. She labours under the impression that she will not be affected by a lack of education.
lacklustre adj. drab, dull, lustreless, flat, dingy, colourless, dismal, dreary, unexciting, boring, prosaic, tiresome, tedious, wearisome, uninteresting, two-dimensional, insipid, vapid, bland, unimaginative, thick, slow, dense, Colloq wishy-washy, blah: He gave a very lacklustre performance as Shylock. She has been leading a lacklustre life since John left.
lame adj. 1 crippled, disabled, handicapped, hobbled, limping, incapacitated, impaired, halting, halt, spavined, Colloq US gimpy: The mare was found to be lame after the previous day's hunting. 2 feeble, weak, flimsy, thin, unconvincing, unpersuasive, awkward, clumsy, poor, ineffective, Colloq half-baked: Refusing to go because you have a headache sounds like a pretty lame excuse to me.
landlady n. 1 proprietor or proprietress, lady of the house, mistress, manager or Brit manageress, hostess: My landlady owns three bed and breakfasts. 2 See landlord, 2, below.
lapse n. 1 slip, error, mistake, fault, failing, oversight, blunder, shortcoming, omission, Formal lapsus, Colloq slip-up, fluff, goof: Apart from a brief lapse, the child behaved very well. Owing to a lapse, your payment was not credited. 2 gap, break, interval, intermission, interruption, pause, lacuna, hiatus, Prosody caesura, Colloq hold-up: Listeners in Scotland experienced a lapse in transmission, for which we apologize. 3 decline, lowering, fall, deterioration, drop, diminution, descent: There has been a serious lapse in church attendance. --v. 4 decline, lower, fall, drop, diminish, sink, slip, slump, subside, deteriorate: Despite the doctor's best efforts, he lapsed into a coma. 5 run out, expire, be discontinued, become void, terminate, end, cease, stop: Your option to sell the shares at the offering price lapses on Friday. 6 pass, elapse, go by, slip away: Three months had lapsed since she last saw him.
lass n. girl, young woman, miss, mademoiselle, schoolgirl, Old-fashioned maiden, maid, damsel, demoiselle; Scots lassie, Irish colleen: He has married a young lass from Arbroath.
lather n. 1 suds, froth, foam: He spread lather on his face and began to shave. 2 sweat; dither, fuss, pother, flutter, Colloq tizzy, state, flap: He got into a real lather when he missed the train. --v. 3 soap (up); foam, froth: The barber lathered my chin thoroughly. 4 thrash, beat, belabour, maul, drub, flog, whack, pummel, buffet, whip, flail, lash: If he dared to swear, his father would lather him.
laurels n.pl. honour(s), distinction(s), fame, awards, tributes, rewards, acclaim, acclamation, glory, renown, celebrity, popularity, reputation; successes, accomplishments: With no new fields to conquer, he is resting on his laurels.
lax adj. 1 loose, slack, casual, slipshod, easygoing, careless, negligent, permissive, weak, indulgent, flexible, relaxed: Law enforcement has always been lax in that city. 2 imprecise, undefined, indefinite, non-specific, unspecific, vague, shapeless, amorphous, general, broad, inexact, hit-or-miss, careless, untidy, Colloq sloppy: His ideas about tactics are too lax for a military man.
leadership n. direction, guidance, management, directorship, administration, supervision, command, regulation, control, operation, influence, initiative; governorship, superintendence, running: The company made huge profits under Katherine's leadership. The leadership of the country at this time was in the hands of the privileged class.
leaning n. bent, inclination, bias, prejudice, favouritism, partiality, predilection, liking, taste, preference, penchant, sympathy, tendency, tendentiousness: The judges' leanings in favour of short-haired dogs are well known.
leave n. 1 permission, authorization, consent, freedom, liberty, licence, sanction, dispensation: Who gave you leave to borrow my car? 2 furlough, leave of absence, time off, sabbatical, recess, holiday, vacation: I am overworked and badly in need of some leave. 3 departure: He took his leave of us at last.
leftover n. 1 Usually, leftovers. remainder(s), remnant(s), rest, residue, residuum, balance, surplus, excess, superfluity, overage; scrap(s), leavings, crumbs, odds and ends, debris or dbris, refuse, waste, rubbish, rubble, detritus, Archaic orts: I'm just having leftovers for dinner tonight. --adj. 2 remaining, residual, extra, excess, unused, uneaten: Save some of the leftover ice-cream for later.
leisure n. 1 spare or free time, time (off), liberty, freedom, opportunity: How many people these days have the leisure to do what they like? 2 holiday, vacation, respite, relief, rest, recreation, relaxation, ease, breathing-space, quiet, tranquillity, repose, US military rest and recreation, R and R: Everyone needs a few days of leisure now and then. 3 at leisure. a unoccupied, inactive, retired, resting, free, on holiday or chiefly US and Canadian vacation; at liberty, available, unemployed: I have been at leisure for a year now. b Often, at one's leisure. at one's convenience, when convenient, unhurriedly, in one's own time: I shall mow the lawn at my leisure. --adj. 4 recreational: The 'leisure industry' is booming with theme parks opening throughout the country. 5 free, unoccupied, non-working, unencumbered, idle, holiday, vacation: How do you usually spend your leisure time?
let v. 1 allow (to), permit (to), sanction (to), give permission or leave (to), authorize (to), license (to), suffer (to): Don't let him go alone. Let George do it. 2 cause (to), arrange for, enable (to): Let me know if you have any difficulty. Let me help you. Let the police know of any crime. 3 Sometimes, let out. rent (out), hire (out), lease (out), charter (out); contract (out), subcontract (out), farm (out), job (out): Mrs Finney lets rooms by the week. Much of the work is let out to people who work at home. 4 let down. disappoint, fail, frustrate; disenchant, dissatisfy, disillusion: He promised to be here at nine, but he let me down. 5 let in. admit, allow in; include, take in, receive, welcome, induct, install or instal: I'll just open a window and let in some fresh air. I wouldn't want to be a member of a club that would let in someone like me. 6 let off. a pardon, forgive, excuse, release, discharge, let go: They let him off with only a severe reprimand. b exonerate, absolve, clear, acquit, vindicate, Slang let off the hook: When the real culprit confessed, she was let off. c detonate, explode, detonate, discharge, fire, set off: Don't let off those fireworks so near the haystack. d emit, give out or off, release, throw off or out, let loose, exude: Some plastics let off an awful smell when they burn. 7 let on. a confess, admit, disclose, divulge, reveal, expose, let it be known, let out, say, tell, give away, let slip, betray; leak: I'll never let on that you are to blame. b feign, affect, pretend, fake, (put on an) act, simulate, dissemble, dissimulate: He let on that he had a bad leg and couldn't play in the match, when in fact he just wanted to go away for the weekend. 8 let out. a See 7 (a), above. b (let) loose, liberate, (set) free, release, let go, discharge: He served three years before being let out. Let the cat out, will you. c emit, give vent to, produce: She let out a scream that could have woken the dead. d end, stop, break up, finish, close, terminate: When does school let out for the Christmas holidays? 9 let up. decrease, abate, ease (up), slacken, diminish, lessen, mitigate, subside, moderate: Perhaps we can still go if the rain lets up soon. 10 let up on. ease up on, slack off on: He didn't let up on haranguing us for an hour.
let-up n. cease, stop, stopping, ceasing, cessation, surcease, break, interruption, pause, intermission, suspension, time out or off; moderation, lessening, abatement, diminution, relief, hesitation, respite, relaxation: I was nagged without let-up about getting the work done by the end of the month.
liberal adj. 1 generous, bountiful, free, open-hearted, open, open-handed, bounteous, charitable, philanthropic, munificent, magnanimous, big, big-hearted, unstinting, unselfish, unsparing; lavish, abundant, ample, large, handsome, plentiful, copious: Lady Browning is a liberal benefactor of our cause. Thank you for your liberal contributions. 2 progressive, libertarian, reformist, humanistic, left (of centre), latitudinarian, non-partisan, unaligned or non-aligned, individualistic, South African verligte: The liberal voters found little to attract them in the latest election. 3 free, not literal, flexible, lenient, loose, broad, open, disinterested, impartial, dispassionate, fair, broad-minded, open-minded, unprejudiced, unbigoted, unjaundiced, unopinionated, tolerant: Judge Reid is known for his liberal interpretation of the law. --n. 4 progressive, libertarian, reformer, progressivist, latitudinarian, independent, freethinker, leftist, left-winger, South African verligte: They think of themselves as liberals, not as conservatives.
lie v. 1 prevaricate, fabricate, misrepresent, invent, commit perjury, perjure or forswear oneself, Colloq fib: If he says that I ate the last cake, he's lying. --n. 2 falsehood, untruth, falsification, misrepresentation, fiction, invention, prevarication, fib, fabrication, Colloq story, cock-and-bull story, (tall) tale, whopper, US fish story, fish tale: His claim of having been attacked was found to be a lie.
lighten v. 1 illuminate, brighten, light up: Opening the curtains would lighten up the room. 2 cheer (up), brighten, gladden, shine; smile: Her face lightened when he said he would be home for the holidays.
likeness n. 1 similarity, resemblance, correspondence, analogy, agreement, parallelism: The artist has caught her likeness in the second painting. 2 copy, replica, facsimile, duplicate, reproduction, model, representation, portrait, painting, picture, drawing, photograph, sculpture,statue, statuette, image, simulacrum, icon or ikon: He sells miniature likenesses of the Eiffel Tower to tourists. 3 appearance, face, figure, image: The premier's likeness appears on posters throughout the country.
limp adj. 1 flaccid, flabby, lax, slack, soft, drooping, relaxed, unstarched, unstiffened, soft, flexible, pliable, floppy, loose: The banners hung limp in the still, sultry air. 2 exhausted, tired, fatigued, worn out, spent, enervated, wasted, debilitated, weak, feeble, frail: He felt limp with exhaustion after the day's hiking. 3 weak, feeble, ineffective, ineffectual, flimsy, half-hearted, lukewarm, spineless, thewless, namby-pamby, Colloq wishy-washy Slang gutless: Having to visit her grandmother seemed a pretty limp excuse to me.
link n. 1 tie, bond, coupling, connector, vinculum; element, constituent, component: A chain is no stronger than its weakest link. 2 connection, tie-up, tie-in, relation, relationship, association, affiliation, interdependence: What is the link between her arrival and his sudden departure? He thinks he's identified the missing link. --v. 3 Often, link up. couple, join, fasten (together), unite; concatenate: They linked arms to form a barrier. 4 connect, tie (up or in or together), associate, relate, identify with: I cannot help feeling that this murder links up with the others.
literal adj. 1 word-for-word, verbatim, line-for-line, letter-for-letter, literatim, exact, precise, faithful, strict: In a literal translation the spirit of the original is often lost. 2 denotative, etymological, semantic, dictionary, lexical, basic, essential, pure, simple, simplistic, real, objective, true, genuine, bona fide, unvarnished, unadulterated, unembellished, simple-minded, uncomplicated, unbiased, unprejudiced, Colloq honest-to-goodness, honest-to-God: 'Female parent' may be the literal definition of mother, but it doesn't convey the emotional and connotative senses of the word. 3 prosaic, matter-of-fact, colourless, dull, down-to-earth, literal-minded, unimaginative, humdrum, boring, tedious: His literal approach to everything spoils the conversation for those who have any spirit.
live adj. 1 living, breathing, animate, viable, existent; material, physical, tangible, real, actual, palpable: She said she'd rather be a live beggar than a dead countess. My cat brought me a live mouse into the house the other day. 2 energetic, lively, spirited, vigorous, active, dynamic, busy; current, contemporary: Our new advertising agency seems to have some live ideas. The other party made nuclear disarmament a live issue in the election. 3 burning, glowing, flaming, alight, red-hot, white-hot: A live coal popped out of the grate onto the carpet. 4 loaded, explosive, unexploded, combustible: Builders have dug up a live bomb in London. 5 charged, electrified: Don't touch a live wire or you'll get a shock. --v. 6 breathe, exist; function: There has never lived a more gifted scholar. She lives as a recluse. 7 survive, persist, last, persevere, endure; spend, continue, live out, complete, end, conclude, finish: He lived out his days happily in Torquay. 8 reside, dwell, be; abide, stay, remain, lodge, room: He normally lives in Acton, but at the moment he's living with his mother in Kent. 9 subsist, get along, survive, fare: Many old-age pensioners complain that they have barely enough to live on.
loan n. 1 advance, allowance, credit, accommodation: We needed a loan to pay for Melissa's education. --v. 2 lend, advance, allow, credit: The bank loaned us enough money to buy a car.
locale n. site, location, spot, place, setting, venue, neighbourhood, situation, locality: We moved the locale of the film to Spain.
logic n. 1 reasoning, deduction, dialectics, ratiocination, inferential or scientific reasoning: Mill defined logic as the science of proof, or evidence. 2 (good or common) sense, sound judgement, wisdom, presence of mind: According to Disraeli, England was not governed by logic. 3 reasonableness, intelligence, judiciousness, practicality, rationality: Your logic is valid, but you are forgetting the human factor.
look-alike n. twin, double, exact or perfect likeness or match, clone, Colloq spitting image or spit and image; doppelgnger; Slang (dead) ringer: She is such a perfect look-alike of Princess Di's that people follow her in the street.
lop v. Often, lop off. chop off, trim, top, head, crop, prune, dock, clip, trim, snip off, shear off, cut off, pare, shorten, hack off, amputate: Lop the lower branches off close to the trunk.
lot n. 1 collection, batch, consignment, assortment, group, portion, set, quantity, grouping, apportionment: They are expecting a new lot of furniture this afternoon. 2 luck, fortune, destiny, fate, kismet, plight, doom, end: It seems to be my lot to stay in the same place all my life. 3 lottery, drawing, raffle, drawing lots or straws: The winner will be decided by lot. 4 share, portion, division, interest, part, allotment, assignment, apportionment, ration, allowance: Marguerite was bequeathed the house, while my lot included the paintings. 5 a lot or lots. a a good or great deal: You have a lot of nerve! I'd give a lot to be able to paint like you. He got into a lot of trouble. b much, loads or a load, mountains or a mountain, tons or a ton, barrels or a barrel, stacks or a stack, piles or a pile, heaps or a heap, masses or a mass, oceans , Colloq oodles, scads, US gobs: She has lots of money. c many, myriad, numerous, countless, reams, infinite or an infinity, quantities or a quantity, enormous numbers or an enormous number, Colloq oodles, scads, loads, tons, masses,: There are lots of fish in the sea. 6 the lot. everything, Colloq the whole kit and caboodle, all: I'll give you a fiver for the lot.
love n. 1 warmth, affection, attachment, fondness, tenderness, devotion, attraction, friendship, amity, regard, admiration, fancy, adoration, adulation, ardour, passion, fervour, rapture, infatuation: Her love for him grew over the years. 2 liking, delight, enjoyment, pleasure, fondness, attraction, predilection, bent, leaning, proclivity, inclination, disposition, weakness, partiality, preference, taste, relish, passion: In his retirement, Charles has developed a love for golf. 3 darling, beloved, sweetheart, sweetie, sweet, honey, dear one, dearest, angel, turtle-dove, true-love, light of one's life, lover, paramour, mate, intended, betrothed; girlfriend, inamorata, lady-love, young lady, fiance; boyfriend, beau, inamorato, suitor, swain, young man, fianc, Archaic leman, tally, US POSSLQ (= 'Person of the Opposite Sex Sharing Living Quarters'), Colloq girl, woman, guy, man: Let me tell you something, my love. Come live with me and be my love. 4 sympathy, tenderness, concern, charity, care, solicitude, affinity, rapport, harmony, brotherhood, sisterhood, fellow-feeling: He has great love for his fellow human beings. 5 love affair. a amour, liaison, affair, romance, relationship, affaire de coeur, intrigue: He's been having a love affair with his secretary. b passion, mania, Colloq thing: George allows nothing to interfere with his love affair with tennis. 6 make love (to) or (with). embrace, cuddle, caress, fondle, have sexual intercourse, Archaic take, know, Colloq neck, pet, canoodle, romance, have sex, make the beast with two backs, US and Canadian make out; Taboo slang screw, fuck, hump, bang, Brit roger, bonk: He still makes love to his wife even though they are both in their eighties. --v. 7 cherish, admire, adore, be in love with, lose one's heart to, worship, idolize, dote on, treasure, be infatuated with, think the world of, adulate, hold dear, like, Colloq be hung up on, be crazy or nuts or wild or mad about, have a crush on: Only after ten years of friendship did she discover that she loved him. 8 delight in, take pleasure in, derive pleasure or enjoyment from, relish, be partial to, have a passion or preference or taste for, be attracted to, be captivated by, be fond of, like, enjoy, appreciate, value, Colloq get a kick from or out of, be wild about, be thrilled by, US get a bang or charge from or out of: She loves chocolates. I just love your new dress! Love me, love my dog.
loyal adj. faithful, true, dependable, devoted, trustworthy, trusty, steady, steadfast, staunch, trusted, reliable, stable, unswerving, unwavering, dedicated, constant, patriotic: Give me twelve men loyal and true and we shall rout the enemy.
lull n. 1 pause, respite, interlude, intermission, interval, break, hiatus, interruption, stop, halt, lapse, delay, Literary caesura, Colloq let-up: After a brief lull, the hurricane resumed in all its ferocity. 2 quiet, quiescence, hush, calm, calmness, stillness, silence, peace, peacefulness, tranquillity: There was a lull, then the noise of the artillery again shattered the night. --v. 3 soothe, calm, quiet, hush, pacify, mollify, tranquillize: Do not let her sweet words lull you into a sense of false security. I was lulled to sleep by the crickets and the bees.
lurch n. leave in the lurch. desert, abandon, forsake; drop, jilt: He left her in the lurch, waiting at the church.
lustful adj. libidinous, carnal, concupiscent, licentious, lewd, prurient, lascivious, salacious, Colloq horny, randy: On her way to work she was forced to endure daily the lustful calls of the construction workers.
lying n. 1 prevarication, fibbing, mendacity, mendaciousness, falsification, untruthfulness, perjury; dishonesty, deceit, duplicity: She was accused of lying while under oath. --adj. 2 untruthful, false, mendacious, hypocritical, dishonest, deceitful, deceptive, duplicitous, treacherous, perfidious: Whoever told you they had found the solution is a lying scoundrel.
macho adj. manly, masculine, virile, proud, arrogant: He's afraid his macho image will be destroyed if he admits to enjoying ballet.
magician n. 1 conjuror or conjurer, illusionist, wizard, sorcerer, sorceress, magus, necromancer, enchanter, enchantress, Merlin, Houdini, Circe, witch, warlock; thaumaturge, theurgist: The court magician changed the pebbles into precious stones by a wave of his wand. 2 marvel, miracle-worker, virtuoso, wizard, genius, master, Colloq whiz: Mary Lou Williams is a magician on the boogie-woogie piano.
mail n. 1 post, correspondence; letters: Has the mail arrived? --v. 2 post, send, dispatch or despatch: Please mail this letter tonight.
major adj. 1 larger, greater, bigger, main, chief, important: Henderson grabbed the major portion of the credit. 2 vital, important, critical, crucial, principal, foremost, paramount, primary, prime, main, big, biggest, pre-eminent, notable, noteworthy, significant, outstanding, dominant, dominating; serious, grave, worst: The major problem in commercial kitchens is sanitation.
manacle n. 1 manacles. shackles, fetters, handcuffs, gyves, chains, irons, Colloq cuffs, Slang bracelets, Brit darbies: The manacles are cutting into his wrists. --v. 2 shackle, fetter, handcuff, restrain, put or throw or clap in irons, chain, Colloq US cuff: The manacled prisoner was led away. 3 confine, inhibit, restrain, curb, check, control, hamper: They felt manacled by the nine o'clock curfew.
manhandle v. maul, paw, rough up, batter, beat (up), pummel, abuse, mistreat, maltreat, ill-treat, trounce, belabour, Slang knock about or around, clobber: His captors manhandled him into a car and drove off.
manifestly adv. evidently, clearly, obviously, plainly, apparently, patently, unmistakably or unmistakeably, palpably, unquestionably, indubitably, undoubtedly, indisputably: The treaty is manifestly to England's advantage.
mantle n. 1 cloak, cape, wrap, shawl, pelisse, pelerine: Over his armour he wore a mantle embroidered with his bearing. 2 covering, cover, sheet, veil, blanket, screen, cloak, shroud, pall, canopy, curtain: A mantle of snow lay on the ground. --v. 3 cover, clothe, envelop, surround, encircle, shroud, veil, screen, obscure, cloak, conceal, hide, mask, wrap, disguise: The mountains were brilliantly mantled and capped with snow.
marginal adj. 1 borderline, minimal, small, slight, negligible, insignificant, tiny, infinitesimal: There are marginal differences in policy on this issue. 2 borderline, on the edge, disputable, questionable, doubtful, dubious: His qualifications for the job are marginal.
marsh n. swamp, bog, fen, slough, quagmire: The marsh teems with new life in the spring. martial adj. 1 warlike, belligerent, bellicose, pugnacious, militant: We had no suspicion of their martial intentions. He is an expert in the martial arts. 2 military, soldierly, courageous, brave, valorous, valiant, stalwart, staunch, stout-hearted: The speech was intended to rouse the soldiers' martial spirit.
massive adj. big, large, oversized, huge, bulky, enormous, hulking, immense, gigantic, towering, mammoth, colossal, titanic, vast, tremendous, prodigious, mountainous, gargantuan, Brobdingnagian, Cyclopean, elephantine, jumbo, stupendous, mighty, weighty, ponderous, Literary massy, Colloq walloping, whopping, monster, Brit whacking (great), US ginormous, humongous: They built a massive wall round the city. Massive beams support the roof.
mate n. 1 companion, associate, colleague, fellow, chap, co-worker, comrade, crony, ally, friend, alter ego, Colloq chum, pal, US buddy, cohort, Slang Brit cully, china: After work, my mates and I stop off for a beer or two (or three ) . 2 spouse, partner, helpmeet, helpmate, consort, husband or wife, better half, Colloq hubby, old man or lady or woman, lord and master, US bride, Slang trouble and strife (= 'wife'): He scarcely seems a worthy mate for the winner of a Miss World contest. 3 fellow, twin, counterpart, parallel, one of a pair: Have you seen the mate to this sock anywhere? --v. 4 pair (up), match (up), marry, wed, join, unite, couple, link (up): People should be free to mate with whom they wish. 5 breed, couple, copulate, pair (up): The zoo was able to get the rhinoceroses to mate. A lion was mated with a tiger to produce a tigon. 6 match (up), fit (together), synchronize, join: I cannot get these gears to mate.
matrimonial adj. marital, marriage, wedding, conjugal, nuptial; married, wedded, connubial: She obtained a court injunction banning him from the matrimonial home. They enjoy matrimonial bliss.
maximum n. 1 most, utmost, uttermost, greatest, peak, extreme, extremity, pinnacle, top, highest, (upper) limit: Turn the volume up to the maximum. 2 zenith, pinnacle, peak, limit, apex, acme, apogee, climax, crest, high(est) point, top, summit: Her career reached its maximum in the 1930s. --adj. 3 maximal, greatest, most, utmost, uttermost, superlative, supreme, paramount, extreme, highest, top, topmost, climactic, crowning: The maximum amount that I can afford for a car is 2000.
mean adj. 1 stingy, miserly, tight, close, cheap, parsimonious, penurious, stinting, niggardly, penny-pinching, tight-fisted, close-fisted, mercenary, uncharitable, ungenerous, mean-spirited, unaccommodating, small, petty, Colloq near, money-grubbing, measly, Brit mingy: He is far too mean to buy anyone a Christmas present. It seems rather a mean contribution to the fund, given his wealth. 2 lowly, low, base, inferior, abject, menial, servile, degraded, degenerate, undignified, ignoble, plebeian, proletarian, modest, humble, common: He rose to a position of great power in spite of his mean background. 3 disgraceful, run-down, poor, sorry, miserable, scruffy, seedy, scurvy, shabby, squalid, wretched, vile, mangy, sordid, contemptible, dismal, dreary, abysmal: They live in very mean circumstances. 4 unkind, malicious, cruel, unaccommodating, disobliging: It was very mean of you to steal that toy from the baby. 5 cantankerous, churlish, nasty, hostile, ill-tempered, bad-tempered, sour, unpleasant: That mean old lady would never even talk to us. 6 excellent, wonderful, marvellous, great, exceptional, effective, skilful, skilled, Slang far-out, US bad: The saxophonist in that combo is one mean cat.
measly adj. sparse, scant, scanty, meagre, paltry, pathetic, skimpy, puny, piddling, miserly, niggardly, miserable, beggarly, stingy, Colloq Brit mingy: 'Nouvelle cuisine' is the name given to a restaurateur's design to serve decorative, but measly, portions.
mediator n. arbitrator, arbiter, referee, umpire, judge, negotiator, intermediary, go-between, middleman, moderator, liaison, intercessor, interceder, conciliator, appeaser, peacemaker: To avoid a lawsuit, they agreed to allow a mediator to settle their differences.
meek adj. 1 modest, humble, submissive, unassuming, unambitious, unpretentious, mild, bland, patient, deferential, shy, retiring, lowly: The meek shall inherit the earth. 2 tame, timid, weak, docile, compliant, submissive, yielding, acquiescent, docile, unaggressive, non-militant, tractable, manageable, subdued, repressed, spiritless, suppressed, broken, Colloq wimpish: The people are meek and will not offer any resistance to such dictatorial government.
melody n. 1 song, tune, air, strain, measure, theme, refrain: Isn't that the melody from Mimi's aria in La Bohme ? 2 tunefulness, melodiousness, euphoniousness, euphony, harmony, musicality, sweetness: The older music seems to be marked by so much more melody than rock 'n' roll.
memorialize v. honour, commemorate, pay homage or respect or tribute to, remember, eulogize, celebrate, mark: His life, devoted to botany, is memorialized in these beautiful gardens.
mentality n. 1 intelligence, brain, capacity, intellect, wit, sense, judgement, acuity, acumen, IQ, rationality, understanding: I'd say that Frank is a man of average mentality. 2 inclination, attitude, bent, mind-set, disposition, frame of mind, temperament, outlook, view: The news betrays little about what is actually happening, but much about the mentality of the leadership. They criticized Britain's 'island mentality'.
mercy n. compassion, pity, forbearance, quarter, tolerance, sympathy, favour, forgiveness, kindness, kindliness, leniency, tenderness, humanity, humaneness, liberality, kind-heartedness, tender-heartedness, soft-heartedness, graciousness, generosity, magnanimity, benignity, beneficence, charity, thoughtfulness, consideration, indulgence: May the Lord have mercy on your soul. We could expect no mercy from that slave-driver.
merry adj. 1 cheerful, happy, gay, cheery, jolly, jovial, in high or good spirits, mirthful, joyful, joyous, hilarious, jubilant, rejoicing, festive, exhilarating, exuberant, vivacious, convivial, buoyant, gleeful, blithe, blithesome, carefree, light-hearted, delighted: Didn't we have a merry old time at the Christmas party! 2 make merry. revel, celebrate, carouse, frolic: The guests made merry till the wee hours of the morning.
mete v. Usually, mete out. deal (out), apportion, distribute, dole (out), allot, assign, allocate, parcel out, share (out), ration (out), measure out, dispense, hand out, give out, pass out, Colloq dish out: Punishment was meted out to those who deserved it.
middle adj. 1 central, centre, halfway, mid, midway, mean, medial, Technical mesial: We had reached the middle stage of our journey. Her index finger and middle finger are almost exactly the same length. --n. 2 centre, mid-point, midst, halfway point; heart, bull's-eye: He lives in the middle of the city. The arrow found the very middle of the target. 3 midriff, waist, mid-section, stomach: She wore a red sash round her middle.
milieu n. environment, climate, surroundings, environs, background, ambience or ambiance, sphere, setting, atmosphere, medium, element, precincts: The British Library was the perfect milieu in which to pursue his research and writing.
mincing adj. effeminate, dainty, delicate, niminy-piminy, foppish, dandyish, over-dainty, affected, put-on, pretentious, precious, Brit twee, Colloq la-di-da or lah-di-dah or la-de-da: His mincing speech sets my teeth on edge.
minimal adj. least, smallest, minutest, littlest, tiniest, slightest; minimum, nominal, token: As a house plant, the cactus requires minimal attention. There is a minimal charge for service.
minute n. 1 instant, second, split second, flash, moment, before you can say 'Jack Robinson', blink or wink or twinkling of an eye, coup d'oeil, trice, Colloq one sec, two secs, bat of an eye, shake, jiffy, tick, Brit half a mo, two shakes (of a lamb's tail): I'll be with you in a minute. 2 minutes. log, record, journal, transcript, notes, summary, rsum, proceedings, transactions, memorandum: Have you the minutes of the last meeting? 3 up to the minute. latest, newest, modern, up to date, trendy, fashionable, smart, all the rage, in vogue, stylish, in style, in fashion, la mode, Colloq in, with it, hep or hip, hot, cool, US now: She always wears the most up-to-the-minute clothes. --v. 4 record, transcribe, take down, write down, note, make (a) note of, document, log: We need someone to minute the meeting.
misanthropic adj. man-hating; antisocial, unsocial, unfriendly, egocentric, egoistic: In his misanthropic moods, Joel disdains human company.
miscellany n. mixture, assortment, variety, medley, diversity, mixed bag, job lot, rag-bag, mlange, pot-pourri, gallimaufry, motley, hotchpotch or US and Canadian hodgepodge, salmagundi, olio, olla podrida, smorgasbord or smrgsbord, odds and ends, omnium gatherum, hash, mess, Brit lucky dip, jumble, US grab-bag: A miscellany of household goods was contributed for the jumble sale.
miser n. skinflint, hoarder, niggard, penny-pincher, pinchpenny, cheese-parer, Scrooge, Colloq cheapskate, US tightwad: For that old miser, charity begins and ends at home.
misguided adj. misled, wrong, misdirected, foolish, unreasonable, erroneous, mistaken, misplaced, imprudent, unwise, impolitic, ill-advised, fallacious, uncalled-for, labouring under a misapprehension, wide of the mark, Colloq off (the mark), barking up the wrong tree: Her helpfulness is often misguided, ending in disaster for all concerned.
mismatched adj. mismated, ill-matched, ill-mated, incompatible, unfit, inappropriate, unsuited, unsuitable, incongruous, misallied, disparate, uncongenial, inconsistent, inharmonious, discordant: With her interest in art and his in football, they made a mismatched pair.
missionary n. evangelist, preacher, minister, proselytizer: During the 19th century, many missionaries were dispatched to spread the faith in Africa.
mistreat v. abuse, maltreat, ill-use, ill-treat, misuse, damage, manhandle, harm; hurt, injure, molest, maul, rough up, brutalize: He was found guilty of mistreating his dogs. She was mistreated by her husband for years.
mitigate v. moderate, temper, reduce, abate, lessen, decrease, relieve, ease, ease up (on), relax, alleviate, remit, assuage, allay, let up (on), slacken, slacken up (on), tone down, lighten, appease, palliate, mollify, calm, tranquillize, soothe, placate, quiet or chiefly Brit quieten, still, soften, dull, blunt, take the edge off, US lighten up (on): The pain was mitigated by taking aspirin. The relief organizations did their best to mitigate the effects of the disaster.
mobbed adj. crowded, packed, thronged, congested, teeming, swarming, full, filled: They tried to leave by the emergency exit, but that was mobbed, too.
moderately adv. somewhat, rather, quite, fairly, pretty, comparatively, slightly, passably, more or less; to some extent, within reason, to a certain extent, to a degree, to some degree, in some measure, in moderation, within limits; temperately; Colloq sort of, kind of: Clifford is moderately well off. It was a moderately hot day.
mogul n. magnate, tycoon, baron, mandarin, Colloq big shot, big gun, big cheese, Pooh Bah, bigwig, big wheel, big (White) Chief, big Daddy, hotshot, VIP, big noise, nabob, Slang US Mr Big: In the old days, he was one of the moguls in Hollywood.
monastery n. abbey, cloister, priory, friary, charterhouse, hospice, Buddhism vihara, Hinduism ashram, Tibetan Buddhism lamasery: In later life he retired to a monastery to contemplate the world.
monolithic adj. massive, huge, enormous, monumental, imposing, colossal, gigantic, giant; featureless, uniform, undifferentiated, characterless; rigid, impenetrable, invulnerable, unbending, inflexible, solid, stolid, intractable, immovable: These monolithic international conglomerates, assembled with the aid of junk bonds, staffed by yuppies, and controlling markets worth hundreds of billions, resemble the monolithic glass towers that house them.
mood n. 1 humour, attitude, inclination, disposition, nature, temper, frame of mind, spirit, atmosphere, sense, feeling: The mood of the people is rebellious. She's in a bad mood. 2 in the mood. ready, willing, eager, keen, (well-)disposed, inclined, sympathetic, minded: I'm not in the mood for a film tonight, but I am in the mood to go dancing.
morality n. 1 ethics, morals, ethicalness, moralness, principle(s), mores, integrity, propriety, standards, ideals; honesty, right, rightness, righteousness, rectitude, justice, fair play, fairness, decency, uprightness, integrity: Morality should not be conditioned by expediency. 2 behaviour, conduct, habit(s), custom(s): Are you suggesting that utilitarianism is a guide for morality?
mortal adj. 1 human; transitory, temporal, transient, ephemeral: It finally dawned on him that the king was mortal, like other men. 2 physical, bodily, corporeal, corporal, fleshly, earthly, worldly, perishable: Her mortal remains are buried at Bognor Regis. 3 deadly, fatal, lethal, terminal, destructive, disastrous: The admiral lay dying from a mortal wound. 4 relentless, implacable, unrelenting, bitter, sworn, deadly, unremitting, unappeasable, unceasing: Halifax was the mortal enemy of despotism. 5 abject, extreme, awful, great, enormous, intense, terrible, inordinate, dire: Giles lived in mortal fear of offending his mother. --n. 6 human (being), man, woman, person, soul, individual, creature, earthling: The novel depicts a lifestyle far removed from that of ordinary mortals. We mortals have nothing to fear from intergalactic aliens.
motto n. maxim, proverb, saying, adage, saw, aphorism, apophthegm or apothegm, gnome, slogan, byword, catchword, battle-cry, guide, moral, principle, rule, precept: The motto of the Order of the Garter is Honi soit qui mal y pense, 'Shame on whoever thinks ill of it'.
mountainous adj. 1 craggy, alpine, Himalayan: It was very slow going through the mountainous parts of the country. 2 huge, towering, high, steep, enormous, immense, formidable, mighty, monumental, prodigious, staggering: Their tiny craft was almost engulfed by the mountainous seas.
movable adj. moveable, floating, variable, changeable, unfixed; portable, transportable, transferable or transferrable: Easter Sunday is a movable feast and has no fixed date on the calendar. Recent developments have produced computers that are smaller than an attach case and easily movable.
muddle v. 1 bewilder, confuse, confound, mystify, baffle, mix up, disorient, befuddle, perplex, bemuse, puzzle, befog: I am totally muddled by your explanation of differential calculus. 2 confuse, mix up, jumble, scramble, entangle, tangle, mess up, disorder, disarrange, disorganize, bungle, mismanage, Colloq muff: My financial affairs got hopelessly muddled when I changed banks. 3 muddle through. (barely) manage, cope, make it, scrape through or along, contrive, make do, get by, get along: We were just muddling through when James was offered this wonderful job. --n. 4 mess, confusion, mix-up, jumble, tangle, disorder, hotchpotch or US also hodgepodge, mishmash, chaos, disaster, Colloq stew, Slang US screw-up, snafu, Taboo slang Brit balls-up: A lot of muddles, mix-ups, and misunderstandings ensued.
mumble v. murmur, mutter, say inarticulately, utter indistinctly, swallow one's words: He mumbled the name of the person who had shot him, but she didn't catch it.
murky adj. dark, gloomy, threatening, dim, clouded, cloudy, overcast, grey, dismal, dreary, bleak, sombre, grim, funereal, shady, shadowy: I could barely make out her face in the murky corner of the chapel.
musty adj. 1 mouldy, damp, mildewed, mildewy, sour, rancid, spoilt, decayed, rotten, putrid, fetid or foetid, fusty, stale: Open the windows to get rid of that musty odour. 2 stale, old-fashioned, antiquated, antediluvian, ancient, out of date, bygone, pass, old hat, obsolete, archaic, tired, hoary, worn out, trite, clichd, stereotypical: I've heard all those musty jokes of his a thousand times before.
mysterious adj. 1 puzzling, enigmatic, baffling, insoluble, unsolvable, bewildering, confounding, confusing, perplexing, mystifying, weird, bizarre, strange, uncanny, curious: A mysterious force makes the saucer rise off the ground and fly at incredible speeds. 2 cryptic, arcane, secret, inscrutable, covert, hidden, furtive, unclear, dark, concealed, occult, inexplicable, incomprehensible, mystic(al), unknown, unfathomable, mystical, recondite, abstruse: It is mysterious how the agency accomplishes its ends.
nag v. 1 Sometimes, nag at. annoy, irritate, irk, pester, criticize, ride, scold, carp (at), upbraid, badger, harass, harry, vex, henpeck, torment, hector, pick at, goad, pick on, find fault with, berate, nettle, bully, provoke, plague, worry, bother, Brit chivvy or chivy or chevy, Colloq needle: He nags her day and night about going on a diet. --n. 2 scold, harpy, pest, shrew, virago, termagant, fishwife: You certainly can be a terrible nag, can't you?
nameless adj. 1 unnamed, innominate, unidentified, anonymous, pseudonymous, incognito, unknown, unheard-of, unsung: How much we owe the nameless inventor of the wheel! 2 inexpressible, indefinable, unidentifiable, unspecified, unspecifiable: A nameless dread seized him as he entered the cave. 3 ineffable, unutterable, unspeakable, unmentionable, abominable, horrible, indescribable, repulsive: Paganism allowed man to sink beneath a flood of nameless sensualities.
narrator n. reporter, storyteller, raconteur, taleteller, teller of tales, anecdotist or anecdotalist, relator, annalist, chronicler, describer, author; voice-over: We sat spellbound waiting for the narrator to continue.
nationality n. 1 citizenship: Some countries allow their citizens dual nationality. 2 race, nation, ethnic group, ethnos, clan, tribe; strain, stock, pedigree, heritage, roots, extraction, bloodline, breed: The country became a melting-pot of myriad nationalities.
nauseated adj. sickened, disgusted, repelled, revolted, offended, sick (to one's stomach), queasy, squeamish; seasick, carsick, airsick: They were nauseated when they saw the cadavers. I became nauseated by the rocking of the boat.
navy n. fleet, flotilla, naval force(s), armada, Literary argosy: The entire navy sailed across the Channel to Le Havre.
necessary adj. 1 indispensable, essential, required, needed, compulsory, requisite, vital, demanded, imperative, obligatory, needful, of the essence, important, of the utmost importance, top-priority, high-priority, urgent, exigent, compelling, life-and-death or life-or-death: A good diet is necessary for good health. It is necessary that you come at once. Take the necessary steps to get the job done. 2 inevitable, unavoidable, inescapable, ineluctable: In the circumstances, we find it necessary to ask for your resignation. 3 sure, certain, predetermined, predestined, fated, inexorable; resulting, resultant: The necessary outcome of the affair was that the child was returned to her natural parents. --n. 4 See necessity, 1, below.
negligible adj. insignificant, minor, unimportant, trifling, trivial, inconsequential, piddling, inappreciable, small, slight, paltry, nugatory, worthless, petty, niggling, not worth mentioning or talking about: The differences between the two plans are negligible.
nerve n. 1 courage, coolness, boldness, bravery, intrepidity, determination, valour, daring, fearlessness, dauntlessness, pluck, mettle, spirit, fortitude, will, tenacity, steadfastness, staunchness, firmness, doughtiness, resoluteness, Colloq guts, grit, gumption, spunk, US sand, Brit bottle, US moxie , Taboo slang balls: It took a lot of nerve to go back into that burning building. 2 effrontery, brazenness, gall, impertinence, brass, impudence, insolence, audacity, brashness, presumption, presumptuousness, temerity, Colloq cheek, sauce, chutzpah, Slang crust: You have a lot of nerve, talking to your mother that way! 3 get on someone's nerves. annoy, irritate, upset: That loud rock music gets on my nerves. 4 nerves. tension, nervousness, hysteria, anxiety, fretfulness, stress, worry, apprehension, fright, Colloq the jitters, Slang the willies, the heebie-jeebies, US the whim-whams: I had a bad case of nerves before learning the doctor's diagnosis.
neuter adj. 1 asexual, sexless, epicene: Worker bees are neuter, neither male nor female. --v. 2 desex or desexualize, doctor; castrate, emasculate, geld, capon or caponize, eunuchize; spay, ovariectomize, oophorectomize; Colloq fix, cut, US alter: We had our cat neutered after her first litter.
nice adj. 1 pleasant, agreeable, amiable, amicable, friendly, cordial, warm, gracious, warm-hearted, kind, kindly, outgoing, charming, genial, delightful, courteous, polite, refined, gentlemanly, ladylike, winsome, likeable, attractive: They are one of the nicest couples I have ever met. 2 good, satisfactory, commendable, worthy, worthwhile: The manager said that I had done a nice job in preparing the specifications. 3 good, fine, superb, superior, attentive, sharp, acute, keen, careful, exact, exacting, rigorous; precise, accurate, unerring, scrupulous, meticulous, punctilious, discriminating, discriminative, perceptive, delicate, fastidious, flawless, faultless, subtle, strict, close, small, slight, minute, complex, complicated, intricate: A diamond cutter must have a nice eye for detail. It is difficult to maintain nice distinctions of meaning among certain words, given that people are so careless with their speech these days. 4 delicate, subtle, sensitive, exquisite, hair-splitting, over-nice, fine, critical, ticklish, dangerous, precarious, perilous, Colloq hairy: The matter of Hong Kong requires some nice political negotiations. 5 trim, well turned out, tidy, neat, fine: Don't you want to look nice for your birthday party? 6 nice and pleasantly, delightfully, pleasingly, agreeably, enjoyably, gratifyingly, satisfyingly, comfortably: It's nice and warm by the fire.
nightly adj. 1 every night, each night, each and every night, night after night: The watchman does his nightly rounds. 2 night-time, nocturnal, bedtime: A nightly glass of warm milk promotes sound sleep. --adv. 3 every night, each night, nights, after dark, after sunset; nocturnally: The bird sings nightly outside my window.
nod v. 1 greet, acknowledge, recognize: The matre d'htel nodded to me as I entered the restaurant. 2 say yes; consent, assent, agree, concur, acquiesce: Asked if she had seen Nick, the barmaid nodded. I asked permission to leave the room and the teacher nodded. 3 doze (off), nap, drowse, drop off, fall asleep: Exhausted travellers nodded in their chairs waiting for their flights to be announced. 4 slip (up), err, make a mistake, be mistaken or wrong; be careless or negligent or lax or inattentive: Sometimes, even Homer nods. --n. 5 signal, sign, cue, indication, gesture: I saw him give a nod to the barber, who suddenly held a cutthroat razor to my throat. 6 approval; consent, acquiescence, concurrence, assent, agreement, Colloq OK or okay: The company has given me the nod to open an office in Acapulco.
non-aligned adj. uncommitted, non-allied, non-affiliated, unaligned, unaffiliated, unallied; neutral, impartial: There are several non-aligned nations that remain independent of the influence of the superpowers.
none pron. no one, not anyone, nobody, no person; not one; not any; nil: Of all the people I met, none impressed me more than Kathy. I'd give you a sweet if I had one, but I have none. I'd even give you money, but I have none.
non-partisan adj. 1 non-partizan, non-aligned, unaligned, unaffiliated, independent, non-committed, uncommitted, neutral, uninvolved, free, (sitting) on the fence: Choose between non-partisan and coalition candidates. 2 impartial, even-handed, fair, just, objective, unbiased, unprejudiced, equitable, dispassionate, disinterested: One could not find a more non-partisan judge than Sir Ronald. --n. 3 independent, neutral, mugwump: I am a non-partisan on the subject of privatization of public utilities.
norm n. 1 usual, average, mean, normal: The norm for the day is 12 degrees Celsius. 2 model, standard, type, pattern, criterion, rule, measure, gauge, yardstick, benchmark: That style of window became the norm for many years.
notched adj. serrate(d), sawtooth(ed), crenellate(d), crenate, serriform, pinked, scalloped, zigzag, toothed, dentate, denticulate(d), dentiform: The flower has notched yellow petals. The vase was decorated with a notched pattern.
notion n. 1 idea, thought, concept, conception, image, impression, general idea, (mental) picture, inkling: She has a pretty good notion of who did it. I haven't the slightest notion of what you are talking about. 2 fancy, whim, crotchet, whimsy, caprice, impulse, inclination, vagary, conceit, quirk, kink: She suddenly took a notion to fly to New York and left.
novice n. beginner, neophyte, newcomer, proselyte, tiro or tyro, noviciate or novitiate, learner, amateur, initiate, apprentice, trainee, probationer, fledgling or Brit also fledgeling, US freshman, Colloq greenhorn, rookie: She is a mere novice at parachuting.
number n. 1 numeral, integer, figure, digit: The columns of numbers were entered in a neat hand. 2 few, handful, crowd, slew, gang, bunch, party, bevy, covey, troop, company, platoon, swarm, horde, multitude, mob, host, army, mass, hundred, thousand, million, billion; several, many, numbers, legions, US and Canadian slew(s) or slue(s), Colloq loads, tons: A number of people attended the meeting. An enormous number of viruses could fit on the head of a pin. 3 issue; edition, copy: The fourth number of the quarterly is published at the end of the year. --v. 4 count, enumerate, compute, calculate, tally, figure (up), add (up), include, total, tot (up), reckon, sum (up): Who can number the stars?
obedient adj. compliant, dutiful, duteous, observant, respectful, tractable, yielding, conformable, adaptable, agreeable, amenable, acquiescent, submissive, subservient, docile, passive, timid, biddable, pliant: Prunella was always an obedient child. All matter and energy is obedient to the laws of physics.
objective adj. 1 fair, impartial, just, judicious, equitable, neutral, disinterested, dispassionate, open-handed, open-minded, detached, unbiased, unprejudiced, unbigoted, even-handed, uncoloured, unjaundiced: How can you be objective about the guilt or innocence of your own child? --n. 2 target, goal, object, aim, purpose, end (in view), intent, intention, design, aspiration, ambition, hope: If we capture the flag, we shall have gained our objective. My objective is to win the pentathlon.
oblique adj. 1 slanting, slanted, sloping, aslant, inclined, diagonal, inclining, angled, angling, canted, canting, banked, banking, cambered, crooked, askew, divergent, diverging, tilted, atilt, tilting: The roof joins the wall at an oblique angle. 2 awry, devious, roundabout, indirect, circuitous, circumlocutionary, evasive, sly, sidelong, offhand, surreptitious, furtive, implied, clandestine, underhand(ed), deceitful, devious, deceptive, false: She made some oblique comments about the candidate's wife.
obsequious adj. low, cringing, toadying, toadyish, sycophantic(al), sycophantish, unctuous, truckling, grovelling, crawling, fawning, deferential, ingratiating, menial, flattering, servile, slavish, subservient, submissive, abject, mealy-mouthed, slimy, Colloq boot-licking, Chiefly Brit smarmy, Taboo slang brown-nosing, Brit arse-kissing, arse-licking, US ass-licking, ass-kissing: He is surrounded with obsequious followers who cater to his every whim.
obsession n. fixed idea, ide fixe, fixation, conviction, preoccupation, prepossession, passion, mania, phobia, Colloq hang-up, thing: Thoughts of death became his constant obsession.
obstruct v. 1 block, bar, check, prevent, stop (up), arrest, halt, clog, make impassable; bring to a standstill: The vein is obstructed by a large blood clot. A clogged drain is obstructing the water. 2 hamper, slow, impede, interfere with, retard, hinder, interrupt, delay, stay, stall: An overturned truck obstructed traffic on the motorway. 3 preclude, prevent, debar, block, prohibit, forbid, stop, stand in the way of: They are manoeuvring to obstruct her from taking over the company.
occasional adj. 1 intermittent, irregular, periodic, random, sporadic, infrequent, casual, incidental: They staged occasional raids on the arsenal. He works as an occasional farm hand. 2 additional, extra, spare, supplementary, incidental, auxiliary, accessory: We bought a few occasional chairs in case we have company. 3 special, particular, ceremonial, ritual: She writes occasional verses for memorial services.
ocean n. 1 (deep blue) sea, (bounding) main, high seas, the deep, Davy Jones's locker, the depths, Colloq the briny, the drink: The sails filled, and our tiny craft was swept out into the open ocean. 2 Often, oceans. flood, abundance, multitude, profusion, plethora, Colloq scads, loads, tons, lots, oodles, gobs, zillions: The direct mail campaign yielded oceans of responses.
off colour adj. 1 unwell, ill, off form, out of sorts, queasy, sick, run down, awful, seedy, Colloq under the weather, poorly, Slang lousy, rotten: I have been feeling off colour since eating that fish. 2 indelicate, risqu, ribald, bawdy, indecent, suggestive, broad, indelicate, inelegant, improper, inappropriate, unseemly, blue: My mother does not tolerate off-colour remarks at the dinner table.
office n. 1 business, organization, department, firm, house, establishment, company, corporation: Whenever I'm travelling, I always try to phone the office once a day. 2 commission, department, branch; section, division: He was with the overseas office for years. 3 workplace, offices; room, area: Our new office is completely air-conditioned. My office is next to the board room. 4 duty, obligation, responsibility, charge, commission, service, employment, occupation, position, post, appointment, assignment, chore, task, job, place, berth, work, role, function, purpose, part, bit, Colloq thing, Slang shtick: He was appointed to the office of Minister of Health. In her office as Minister of Finance, she wields great power. 5 offices. indulgence, intermediation, auspices, support, advocacy, aegis, help, aid, intercession, mediation, patronage, favour, backing, backup: She appealed to the police chief's good offices to allow her to visit her son.
often adv. frequently, regularly, much, many times, usually, habitually, commonly; ordinarily, again and again, over and over again, time after time, repeatedly, time and (time) again, in many cases or instances, on numerous occasions, day in (and) day out, continually, Literary oftentimes, oft: How often do you visit your mother? We often went to the seaside for our summer holiday. She was often warned not to go too near the edge. ogle v. 1 leer, eye, make eyes at, Colloq give (someone) the glad eye, give (someone) the once-over, make sheep's eyes at: The old lecher is always ogling the pretty young secretaries. 2 gape, gaze, goggle, gawk, stare, Slang Brit gawp or gaup: We took turns ogling the rings of Saturn through the telescope. --n. 3 leer, stare, gape, goggle, oeillade, Colloq once-over, glad eye: They all crowded round the paper for an ogle at the pin-ups.
ominous adj. 1 foreboding, threatening, fateful, dark, black, gloomy, lowering or louring, menacing, sinister; unpropitious, unfavourable, ill-omened, ill-starred, unpromising, star-crossed, inauspicious: With ominous solemnity, the judge placed a black cloth square on his head before passing the death sentence. 2 minatory, warning, admonitory, cautionary: The whispering had taken on ominous overtones. 3 portentous, prophetic, oracular, vaticinal, predictive, prognostic, augural, mantic, sibyllic, meaningful, premonitory, foreshadowing, foretelling, foretokening, indicative: Virtually everything was regarded as ominous in ancient times.
only adj. 1 sole, single, solitary, lone, one and only, exclusive: He is the only one who can identify the murderer. --adv. 2 solely, just, exclusively, alone: He has a face that only a mother could love. They have been here only twice. She gets her own way only because she has a tantrum if anyone crosses her. Harry was correct in one respect only. 3 merely, simply, barely, at best, at worst, at most, just, purely, not or no more than, not or no greater than: She is only seventeen. I received your note only today. Don't get excited, it's only a small present. --conj. 4 but, however, on the other hand, on the contrary, contrariwise: The flowers are lovely, only they have no scent.
opening n. 1 break, breach, rent, rift, cleft, crack, crevice, fissure, cranny, chink, pit, gap, split, slit, slot, aperture, hole, orifice, separation: Flowers grew from openings in the wall. 2 opportunity, chance, occasion, toe-hold, foothold, Colloq break, toe or foot in the door, Brit look-in: I was waiting for an appropriate opening to make my presentation. 3 job, position, opportunity, vacancy: Is there likely to be an opening in the art department of your company? 4 beginning, commencement, start, birth, origin, outset, onset, inauguration, launch, send-off, initiation, presentation, debut; vernissage, US start-off, start-up: The opening of the autumn social season was marked by Malcolm's birthday party. Aren't you going to the opening at the museum tonight?
opponent n. antagonist, adversary, disputant, contestant, competitor, contender, rival, foe, enemy; the opposition: He may be my opponent in the chess competition, but we are the best of friends.
opposition n. 1 hostility, antagonism, unfriendliness, resistance, counteraction, disapproval, objection, conflict, defiance, contrast, antipathy, adversity, Colloq flak: There is strong opposition to plans for an amusement arcade. 2 competition, opponent, adversary, competitor, antagonist, enemy, foe, rival, other side: We must overcome the opposition in order to win. 3 in opposition. competing, competitive, antagonistic, hostile, conflicting, in conflict, antithetic(al), opposed, at daggers drawn, in deadly embrace: Although they agree on some points, the parties are in opposition on others.
optional adj. voluntary, discretionary or discretional, elective, facultative, free, spontaneous, uncoerced, unforced, non-compulsory, uncompulsory, non-mandatory, unmandatory, non-requisite, unrequisite: Life insurance is optional for those who have our hospitalization policy.
ordeal n. trial, test, tribulation(s), hardship, affliction, trouble(s), suffering, distress, anguish, nightmare, misery, grief, misfortune, adversity, tragedy, disaster: She never fully recovered from her ordeal at the hands of the kidnappers.
organization n. 1 organizing, structuring, assembling, assembly, putting together, coordination, systematizing, systematization, classifying, classification, categorizing, categorization, codifying, codification: The organization of the school timetable took hours to complete. 2 structure, pattern, configuration, design, plan, scheme, order, system, organism, composition, arrangement, constitution, make-up, grouping, framework, format, form, shape: One must consider the organization as a whole, not merely its constituent elements. 3 body, system, institution, federation, confederacy, confederation, society, group, league, coalition, conglomerate, combine, consortium, syndicate, organism: The organization is a coherent structure made up of an enormous number of disparate elements.
originate v. 1 create, bring about, engender, give birth to, beget, conceive, initiate, inaugurate, start, begin, introduce, launch, found, set up, institute, establish, invent, coin, devise, pioneer, design, contrive, concoct, mastermind, compose, organize, formulate, form, generate, produce, develop, evolve: Wasn't it the Chinese who originated free public health schemes? 2 arise, rise, begin, start, come, spring, stem, flow, issue, emerge, emanate, proceed, grow, develop, evolve, derive, result: Where did the idea of the democratic form of government originate?
ostracize v. blackball, blacklist, banish, exile, boycott, isolate, segregate, exclude, excommunicate, snub, shun, avoid, Chiefly Brit send to Coventry, Colloq cut, cold-shoulder, give (someone) the cold shoulder: Marcus has been ostracized at the club ever since the court case.
outdoor adj. outside, out of doors, alfresco, open-air: Both of them enjoy outdoor activities like hiking and bicycling.
outlet n. 1 way out, exit, egress, loophole, relief, escape, escape hatch, vent, opening, release, safety-valve, discharge: There seemed to be no outlet for his anger but to throw the cushion at her. The main outlet of the Great Lakes is the St Lawrence river. 2 retailer, shop, store, market: The company is having difficulty finding outlets that will stock its products.
outrageous adj. 1 excessive, extravagant, immoderate, exorbitant, enormous, unreasonable, preposterous, shocking, extreme, unwarranted, exaggerated, unconscionable, inordinate, intolerable, disgraceful, shameful, scandalous: The prices at that restaurant are absolutely outrageous. 2 vicious, cruel, heinous, atrocious, barbaric, inhuman, abusive, beastly, horrible, horrid, horrendous, iniquitous, villainous, wicked, evil, egregious, flagrant, grievous, infamous, execrable, abominable, grisly, hideous, monstrous, vile, unthinkable, foul, awful, unspeakable, appalling, offensive, indecent: The captives suffered the most outrageous treatment at the hands of their conquerors. 3 indecent, offensive, immoral, rude, indelicate, obnoxious, profane, obscene, dirty, filthy, lewd, salacious, foul, smutty, scatological, pornographic, objectionable, repellent, repulsive, nauseating, nauseous, nasty, gross, revolting, shocking, repugnant, disgusting, fulsome, perverted, depraved, dissolute, degenerate, dissipated, debauched, profligate; explicit, unrestrained; foul-mouthed, thersitical, insulting; unseemly, inappropriate, indecorous, improper, naughty, appalling, embarrassing; Literary Fescennine, US shy-making: The sermon denounced the outrageous films, books, magazines, and television programmes to which children are exposed. Warren sometimes says the most outrageous things.
outspoken adj. candid, frank, open, free, direct, unreserved, unreticent, straightforward, forthright, explicit, specific, plain-spoken, plain-speaking, unequivocal, unceremonious, unambiguous, unsubtle, uninhibited, unshrinking, blunt, bold, brusque, brash, undiplomatic, tactless, crude: Linda was always quite outspoken in her opinions of her neighbours. Her outspoken observations are a fruitful source of gossip.
ovation n. applause, acclamation, acclaim, plaudits, cheers, cheering, clapping, laudation, praise, kudos, Colloq (big) hand: At the conclusion of the concerto, the pianist was given a standing ovation.
overcritical adj. supercritical, hypercritical, captious, carping, niggling, cavilling, querulous, fault-finding, finicky, fussy, hair-splitting, difficult, fastidious, harsh, severe, demanding, exacting, small, small-minded, US and Canadian picayune, Colloq picky, nit-picking, pernickety or US also persnickety: You should not be overcritical of Maddy - she's only a child.
overhead adv. 1 (up) above, (up) in the air or sky, high up, on high, aloft, skyward: The aeroplanes passed overhead at dawn. --adj. 2 elevated, raised, upper: The crane travels on an overhead track. --n. 3 Brit overheads, US overhead. (basic or fixed) costs, operating cost(s), expense(s), outlay, disbursement(s), running cost(s), expenditure(s), maintenance, cost(s) of doing business: One way to increase profits is by reducing overheads.
overrate v. overvalue, make too much of, exaggerate the worth or value of, attach too much importance to, overprize, assess too highly: They insist that his value to the company is overrated and that he should be dismissed.
overstate v. exaggerate, magnify, hyperbolize, embroider, overstress, colour, make (too) much of, overdraw, overemphasize, stretch, enlarge, inflate, blow up: They might have overstated the problem by asking for a 24-hour police guard.
overwhelm v. 1 overpower, overcome, overtax, devastate, stagger, crush, defeat, destroy, subdue, suppress, quash, quell, conquer, beat, bring down, prostrate, weigh down, oppress: Overwhelmed by grief, she dissolved into tears. 2 inundate, overcome, engulf, submerge, flood (over); deluge, swamp, bury, immerse: A feeling of terror suddenly overwhelmed me as I watched my safety rope fray and break. In only a few hours the rising waters had completely overwhelmed the house. 3 overcome, stagger, astound, astonish, dumbfound or dumfound, shock, stun, bewilder, confuse, confound, nonplus, surprise, take aback, Colloq bowl over, knock off one's feet or pins, blow one's mind, discombobulate, Brit knock for six: We were overwhelmed by the friendly reception that awaited our return.
packet n. 1 package, parcel, pack, batch: We found a packet of your old love-letters in a trunk in the lumber room. 2 loads, lot(s), great deal, fortune, mint, Colloq bundle, pretty penny, pile(s), tidy sum, king's ransom, Brit bomb: He lost a packet on that property when they built a sewage plant alongside it.
pageant n. spectacle, display, grandeur, tableau, show, parade, procession, ceremony, formality, ritual, event, affair, extravaganza, presentation, gala: The children stage a medieval mystery play as a part of the annual Christmas pageant.
paint n. 1 colour, tint, dye, colouring, pigment, stain: I bought the paint and brushes, and started work on the kitchen walls. 2 coating, coat, surface; enamel: The rust has come through the paint here and there. 3 make-up, cosmetics, maquillage, greasepaint, Colloq warpaint, face: Sheila is in her room putting on some paint before we go out. --v. 4 depict, portray, picture, show, represent, delineate, render, draw, limn, characterize, describe: Whistler painted a portrait of my grandmother. Correspondents painted a very grim picture of the plight of the hostages. 5 coat, brush, apply, cover, daub: The doctor painted the area with some medication that soothed the pain. 6 colour, tint, dye, stain, decorate: We are planning to paint the nursery pale blue. 7 paint the town red. make merry, carouse, revel, go on a spree, go out on the town, Colloq whoop it up, live it up, (go on a) pub-crawl, step out, Slang make whoopee, go on a bender or drunk or binge, booze it up: Saturday nights a few of the boys would go out and paint the town red till the wee hours.
pall n. 1 shroud, covering, mantle, cloth, veil: A black velvet pall covered the coffin. 2 gloomy or melancholy or sombre or grave or depressing air or mood or atmosphere; damper, cold water, Colloq wet blanket: The recently uncovered scandals have cast a pall over his successes in office.
pander v. 1 Usually, pander to. satisfy, gratify, humour, indulge, fulfil, bow to, yield to, truckle to, cater to: She is tired of pandering to his every wish. 2 procure, pimp, solicit: I didn't believe he would sink so low as to pander for his business clients. --n. 3 panderer, pimp, procurer, solicitor, whoremonger, White slaver, Slang flesh-pedlar or US also flesh-peddler or flesh-pedler, Brit ponce, mack: The word pander is an eponym for Pandarus, who acted as a sycophantic go-between for Troilus in Chaucer's Troilus and Criseyde .
paper n. 1 newspaper, tabloid, daily, weekly, journal, gazette, publication, periodical, newsletter, organ, Colloq rag, sheet: She is feature editor of a paper in Manchester. 2 Often, papers. a document(s), instrument, legal papers, form, certificate, deed, ownership papers; credential(s), identification: Bring the papers to my office for signing. His papers are not in order. Many people lost their papers during the war. b docket, files, dossier, record(s), archive(s): Your papers seem to have disappeared from our office. 3 stationery, letterhead, writing-paper, letter-paper, notepaper; foolscap; scrap or US also scratch paper; wrapping paper; gift-wrapping, gift-wrap; wallpaper: She wrote to me on the most beautiful engraved paper. We buy our Christmas paper from a museum shop. 4 article, composition, essay, assignment, report, thesis, study, tract, analysis, critique, exegesis, treatise, dissertation, disquisition, manuscript, MS or ms, autograph, holograph, typescript, script, speech: Adelaide will present her paper at the meeting of the Royal Academy this year. --v. 5 (hang) wallpaper, line; post, distribute: The entire area was papered with posters announcing the meeting.
parallel adj. 1 similar, corresponding, congruent, analogous, analogic(al), correspondent, like, matching, homologous, coordinate, equivalent, coequal, proportional, proportionate, pari passu, mutatis mutandis, in proportion, uniform; contemporary or cotemporary, contemporaneous or cotemporaneous: The situation in Northern Ireland could be compared with a parallel situation in Lebanon. --n. 2 analogue, match, homologue, equivalent, complement, counterpart, equal, coequal: Campbell found many parallels among the legendary heroes of other cultures. 3 analogy, parallelism, equivalence, complementarity, relationship, kinship, correspondence, resemblance, likeness, similarity, symmetry, equality, coequality, parity, correlation; proportion, balance, equiponderance, equipoise, counterbalance, offset: One can draw parallels between the human arm, the fish's fin, and the bird's wing. By way of parallel, consider the flood in the Bible and that in the Gilgamesh epic. --v. 4 correspond to or with, match, equate to or with, be likened to, correlate to or with, compare with or to, imitate, repeat, echo, iterate, reiterate, duplicate, follow, agree with; keep pace with, conform (to), balance, set off, offset, even off or up, be accompanied by, coincide with, Colloq jibe with: In many respects, your attitudes towards life parallel mine when I was your age. A decrease in the rate of inflation supposedly parallels a rise in interest rates.
parch v. dry (out or up), desiccate, dehydrate, exsiccate; scorch, sear, burn, bake; shrivel (up), wither: The earth was parched by the unrelenting sun.
parley n. 1 conference, discussion, dialogue, palaver, deliberation, meeting, colloquy, colloquium, confabulation, powwow, talk(s), Colloq huddle, confab: The issue will be decided at the executive council's parley. --v. 2 confer, discuss, palaver, deliberate, talk (over), negotiate, deal, Colloq huddle: Would Sitting Bull parley with General Custer?
parrot n. 1 imitator, mimic, Colloq copycat: She never has an original idea of her own: she's a mere parrot of others' fashions and fancies. --v. 2 imitate, mimic, ape, copy, echo, repeat, reiterate: Mick doesn't understand the issues and just parrots what he hears on TV.
particle n. atom, molecule, scintilla, spark, mote, suggestion, hint, suspicion, gleam, bit, crumb, jot, tittle, whit, mite, speck, dot, spot, iota, grain, morsel, shred, sliver, scrap, Colloq smidgen or smidgin: There isn't the slightest particle of evidence linking them with the murder.
parvenu n. 1 parvenue, upstart, arriviste, nouveau riche, intruder, adventurer, social climber: Usually one generation has to pass before a parvenu is accepted by the class with which his money associates him. --adj. 2 nouveau riche, upstart, intrusive: This parvenu industrialist tried to use his wealth to make up for his lack of refinement.
passionate adj. 1 ardent, eager, intense, fervid, zealous, avid, eager, earnest, zestful, feverish, fanatic(al), vehement, impassioned, emotional, animated, spirited, enthusiastic, vigorous, invigorated, energetic: Passionate environmentalists campaign for better governmental control of carbon dioxide emissions. 2 aroused, lustful, lecherous, erotic, sexual, amorous, sensual, Colloq hot: She tried to resist his passionate advances. 3 quick-tempered, irascible, hotheaded, fiery, testy, huffy or huffish, peevish, cranky, peppery, choleric, touchy, bilious, snappish, volatile, cross, temperamental, irritable, quarrelsome, pugnacious, argumentative, contentious, belligerent, Rare atrabilious or atrabiliar: Valerie gets into a passionate mood whenever she thinks she is being treated unjustly.
pasture n. meadow, meadow-land, pasture land, grassland, grass, lea, range; pasturage: How much pasture is needed for 200 head of cattle?
paternity n. fatherhood, fathership; parentage, descent, heritage, line, lineage, extraction, family, stock, strain, blood, patrilineage: The child's paternity was established through DNA tests.
patron n. 1 patroness, benefactor, benefactress, philanthropist, Maecenas, protector, supporter, defender, advocate, champion, guardian (angel), sponsor, backer, promoter, sympathizer, friend, US booster; friend at court; Colloq angel: Lady Agnes is a well-known patron of the arts. 2 customer, client, purchaser, buyer, patronizer, habitu, regular, frequenter: The patrons habituate her shop because of the bargains to be found there.
pave v. 1 macadamize, tarmac, asphalt, tile, flag, concrete, cover, surface: Europeans thought that the streets of America were paved with gold. 2 pave the way for or to. prepare or smooth the way for, open the door for, make easy or easier for; facilitate, ease: If I talk to him first, perhaps I can pave the way for you to make your proposal.
peaceful adj. 1 peaceable, serene, placid, calm, quiet, quiescent, gentle, restful, tranquil, untroubled, undisturbed, unruffled: After our week-end guests left, the house was again peaceful. 2 See peaceable, 2, above.
peccadillo n. slip, error, lapse, mistake, infraction, violation, misdeed, shortcoming, misstep, blunder, faux pas, indiscretion, gaffe, botch, stumble, fault, petty sin, (minor) transgression, trespass, Colloq slip-up, goof: We have to forgive the occasional peccadillo.
pedlar n. hawker, (door-to-door) salesman or saleswoman or salesperson, vendor, huckster, seller, colporteur, US peddler, drummer, Archaic chapman, Colloq cheapjack: How can you expect the watch to work if you bought it from a street pedlar?
peg v. 1 pin, dowel, rod, stick, bolt; thole or thole-pin; clothes-peg, hook: Pegs and glue are often used for fastening good furniture together. Hang your coat on the peg. 2 off the peg. ready-made, ready-to-wear, stock: As bespoke clothing is so dear, I buy mine off the peg. 3 take down a peg (or two). humble, diminish, lower, subdue, suppress, downgrade, dishonour, mortify, humiliate, put down, abase, debase, devalue or devaluate: He was acting a bit high and mighty, so she took him down a peg or two. --v. 4 fasten, secure, make fast, fix, attach, pin: They pegged the tent firmly to the ground. 5 fix, attach, pin, set (by), control by, limit by, restrict, confine, freeze, bind, regulate, govern: In indexing, the rate of inflation is often used for pegging wages. 6 toss, throw, shy, flip, sling, cast: I'll bet a fiver you can't peg that stone across the river. 7 peg away or US also along. work (away) (at), persevere (at), apply oneself (to), persist (in or at), go to or at (it), keep at (it), stick to or with or at (it), stay with or at (it), carry on (with or at), Colloq plug away (at), beaver away (at), hammer or bang or peck away (at): Trevor pegs away at his homework every evening.
penalty n. punishment, discipline, penance, sentence; forfeit, fine, handicap, price, mulct, Formal amercement; imprisonment, incarceration: The prosecution demanded the maximum penalty allowable under law for the crimes.
penetration n. 1 piercing, perforation, puncturing, incision, puncture, penetrating; inroad, entry, entrance: Penetration of the skull required great effort on the part of the surgeon. Tentatively we attempted the penetration of the jungle. 2 insight, keenness, perception, percipience, intelligence, perspicacity, perspicuity, perspicaciousness, perceptiveness, acuteness, incisiveness, sensitivity, sentience, understanding, acuteness, discernment, discrimination, cleverness, shrewdness, wit, quick-wittedness: We all admired the penetration that was shown by the examiner in the questions she asked.
pent-up adj. restrained, constrained, repressed, stifled, bottled-up, corked-up, held in, checked, held back, curbed, inhibited, restricted: After weeks of frustration, he wanted to release his pent-up emotions in a scream. They went jogging to try to work off their pent-up energy.
perception n. 1 appreciation, grasp, apprehension, understanding, comprehension, knowledge, perspective, view: Mrs Hart's perception of the situation is quite different from mine. 2 intuition, insight, instinct, feel, feeling, sense, impression, awareness, idea, notion, consciousness, realization: Norton hasn't the slightest perception of what is going on behind his back at the office.
perfection n. 1 purity, flawlessness, faultlessness, sublimity, superiority, excellence, pre-eminence, transcendence: Though we strive for perfection, we never can achieve it. 2 completion, completeness, achievement, fulfilment, realization, consummation, accomplishment, attainment: The building doesn't reach perfection till the last roof-tile is in place. 3 ideal, paragon, model, archetype, pattern, mould, standard, idealization, essence, quintessence, acme, pinnacle, summit: Machiavelli probably achieved the perfection of political cunning.
performer n. actor or actress, artiste, Thespian, trouper, player: They received their training as performers in a repertory company.
periodic adj. periodical, intermittent, regular, recurrent, repetitive, iterative, cyclic(al), repeated; episodic, sporadic, occasional: We called in the plumber because of the periodic hammering in the pipes. The next periodic return of Halley's comet is expected in 2061-62.
permanence n. permanency, stability, durability, fixedness, changelessness, lasting quality, longevity, endurance, persistence, dependability, reliability, survival: The new roofing material is being tested for permanence.
perpendicular adj. 1 erect, upright, vertical, plumb, straight (up and down): The plumb-line shows that the wall isn't perpendicular. 2 Often, perpendicular to. at right angles (to), at 90 degrees (to): The two paths are perpendicular to one another.
perquisite n. consideration, emolument, bonus, (fringe) benefit, extra, bonus, dividend, gratuity, tip, douceur, baksheesh, token (of appreciation), US lagniappe or lagnappe, Colloq perk: It was traditional to provide each director with a company car as a perquisite.
person n. 1 individual, human (being), being, man or woman or child, (living) soul; mortal: Not a single person knew the answer to my question. 2 in person. physically, personally, bodily, actually, myself or yourself or himself or herself or ourselves or yourselves, or themselves, Colloq in the flesh: The correspondent visited the battlefield in person to see for himself the extent of the carnage. I know their records, but I have never seen them in person.
perspective n. 1 (point of) view, viewpoint, standpoint, prospect, vantage point, position, angle, Colloq where one is coming from: I can see that my view would be illogical from his perspective. 2 attitude, position, angle, approach, sentiment, outlook, lookout: Management has a different perspective on what is good for the company.
perturb v. upset, disturb, fluster, ruffle, unsettle, disconcert, make uneasy, discomfit, vex, worry, agitate, shake up, alarm, disquiet, confuse, discompose, unnerve, addle, disorganize: He became quite perturbed when the police asked him to help with their inquiries.
pessimistic n. gloomy, negative, despairing, hopeless, inauspicious, depressed, despondent, dejected, melancholy, downhearted, heavy-hearted, defeatist, glum, sad, blue, unhappy, cheerless, joyless, cynical, bleak, forlorn: The bears in the Stock Exchange take a pessimistic view of share prices.
petition n. 1 request, application, solicitation, suit, entreaty, supplication, plea, appeal: An anti-pollution petition, signed by thousands of people, was delivered to the Department of the Environment. --v. 2 request, ask, apply to, apply for, solicit, sue, call upon, entreat, supplicate, plead, appeal (to), appeal (for), beseech, implore, importune, Rare obsecrate: The shopkeepers petitioned the council for better police protection.
pharmacist n. pharmacologist, Rather old-fashioned or formal apothecary, Brit (pharmaceutical) chemist, US and Canadian druggist, Formal posologist, Colloq pill pusher, US pill roller: The pharmacist said that those pills have bad side-effects.
philanthropy n. 1 generosity, benevolence, charity, patronage, magnanimity, charitableness, public-spiritedness, big-heartedness, thoughtfulness, alms-giving, kind-heartedness, beneficence, benignity, liberality, open-handedness: Carnegie's philanthropy was focused on libraries and education. 2 donation, contribution, largesse, aid, grant, assistance, help: Mrs Ander's recent philanthropy allows us to offer six new scholarships.
photographer n. lensman, lenswoman, cameraman, camerawoman, cinematographer, paparazzo (pl., paparazzi), Old-fashioned photographist: The photographers clustered round the prime minister.
pictorial adj. 1 graphic, picturesque, vivid, telling, striking, expressive, plain, explicit, clear, lucid: Many of the poet's images are amazingly pictorial. 2 illustrated: They published a pictorial history of biblical lands just for children.
piercing adj. 1 strident, shrill, harsh, ear-splitting, ear-shattering, high-pitched, screaming, shrieking, screeching, loud, blaring: The piercing sound of the police siren made me sit bolt-upright in bed. 2 probing, searching, penetrating, sharp, keen; arresting, gripping, spellbinding, enthralling, fascinating, entrancing: I was completely transfixed by her piercing green eyes. 3 penetrating, icy, frosty, frigid, chilling, freezing, cold, numbing, keen, wintry, arctic, raw, bitter, fierce, biting, nipping, nippy: Shivering in that piercing wind I thought I'd never be warm again. 4 stabbing, shooting, excruciating, exquisite, acute, sharp, severe, agonizing, fierce, intense, painful, racking: I suddenly felt a piercing pain in my left ear.
pilgrimage n. hajj or hadj, holy expedition, crusade; expedition, journey, trek, voyage, tour, trip, excursion: Every year the entire family made a pilgrimage to grandfather's grave.
pincers n.pl. pliers, nippers, tweezers: Can you get the nail out with these pincers?
pipeline n. 1 pipe, tube, duct, hose, line, main, conduit, passage, conveyor, channel: Pipelines carry gas from the North Sea throughout Britain. Very little information was flowing through the pipeline from Beirut. 2 in the pipeline. on the way, under way, in the offing, ready, imminent, coming, Colloq in the works, cooking, US in work: They said that the contract was in the pipeline and should arrive soon.
pitched adj. organized, planned, deliberate, coordinated, arranged, systematized: The two armies fought a pitched battle on the plain.
pivot n. 1 pintle, gudgeon, hinge, swivel, pin, kingpin, spindle, fulcrum: Use this stone as a pivot for the lever to lift the rock. 2 centre, heart, focal point, hub, nave, crux: The finance minister regards the interest rate as the pivot on which the economy turns. --v. 3 rotate, revolve, turn, spin, twirl, whirl, swivel: The flywheel pivots on a bearing that requires constant lubrication. 4 hinge, depend, hang, be contingent, revolve around, rely: The whole deal pivots on the cooperation of the banks.
plank n. board, timber, slab: The flooring was made up of wide planks laid side by side.
platform n. 1 stand, dais, stage, podium, rostrum: After the introduction, the speaker mounted the platform. 2 policy, party line, principle(s), tenet(s), programme, plank: The main elements of our platform will be revealed at the party conference.
playful adj. 1 (high-)spirited, cheerful, frisky, frolicsome, kittenish, sprightly, fun-loving, sportive, coltish, mischievous, puckish, impish, elfish, devilish: The cat didn't mean to scratch you, she was just being playful. 2 joking, facetious, teasing, roguish, waggish, jesting, humorous, tongue-in-cheek: Cleo's in a playful mood today, isn't she?
pleased adj. happy, delighted, glad, gratified, satisfied, contented, thrilled; Colloq tickled pink, pleased as Punch, on cloud nine, in seventh heaven, on top of the world, walking on air, Brit over the moon, chuffed: His pleased look comes from his having won first prize. pleasing adj. 1 See pleasant, 1, above. 2 See pleasant, 2, above.
pliable adj. 1 flexible, pliant, elastic, plastic, fictile, malleable, workable, bendable, bendy, ductile, flexuous, supple; lithe, limber: This substance remains pliable only while it is warm. 2 tractable, adaptable, flexible, pliant, compliant, persuadable or persuasible, impressionable, susceptible, responsive, receptive, docile, manageable, yielding: The other directors may not be as pliable when it comes to improving employee benefits.
plum n. find, catch, coup, prize, treasure; bonus, cream: Harvey's landed a plum job as overseas buyer.
ply n. layer, leaf, thickness, fold: These seams are sewn through two plies of fabric.
point n. 1 dot, mark, speck; (full) stop, period; decimal point: The writing is smudged, but that looks like a point at the end of the line. 2 tip, peak, apex, spike, spur, prong, sharp end: Be careful of the point of that knife. 3 spot, place, stage, position; site, station, location, locale: We have reached the point of no return on that subject. I stopped at a few points along the way to admire the view. 4 time, moment, instant, juncture: At that point, we were summoned by the dinner bell. 5 focus, essence, meat, pith, quiddity, substance, heart, nucleus, crux, nub, core, bottom, details, Colloq guts, nitty-gritty: I wish he would stop all the palaver and get to the point. 6 purpose, intent, intention, aim, goal, object, objective, sense: What was the point of bringing that piece of gossip into the discussion? 7 thrust, drift, theme, purport, burden, import, implication, significance, signification, sense, meaning; application, applicability, relevancy, appropriateness: We found it difficult to see the point of the argument. 8 promontory, projection, headland, cape, peninsula: It may take us a day to sail round the point. 9 brink, verge: We were on the point of leaving when the guest of honour finally arrived. 10 detail, particular, item, element, nicety, aspect, facet, matter, issue, subject, question; specifics: Some of the points in her speech need clarification. 11 pointer, hint, suggestion, piece of advice, tip: The golf pro at the club gave me some good points on improving my swing. 12 thought, idea, consideration; notion, view, plan, tactic; something: That's a point to keep in mind if you buy another sailing-boat. 13 unit, tally, score: She made her point and went on to win the match. 14 attribute, characteristic, feature, aspect, trait, quality, side, property: I suppose he has his good points, too. 15 beside the point. irrelevant, inapt, inappropriate, malapropos, incidental, immaterial, unimportant, pointless, inconsequential: The fact that she's my sister is beside the point. 16 in point of. in reference to, regarding, as regards, in the matter of, concerning, with respect to: In point of date, the two events coincide perfectly. 17 make a point of or US also make (it) a point to. make an effort (to), put or place emphasis on, go out of one's way (to); emphasize, single out, stress: He made a point of apologizing to the hostess for his behaviour. She made a special point of forgiving him. 18 to the point. relevant, pertinent, appropriate, fitting, apropos, germane, apt, applicable, apposite: The speech was short and to the point. --v. 19 Often, point to. indicate, call or direct attention to: Desire pointed to the building and asked what it was. 20 direct, level, aim, train: I awoke to find her pointing a gun at my head. 21 point out. a designate, call or direct attention to, show, exhibit, indicate, identify: The taxi driver pointed out all the sights as we drove along. b say, bring up, mention, allude to, bring up, emphasize, stress, point up, single out; allude to, call attention to, remind: I'd like to point out that you have rarely won at bridge. She pointed out the fallacy in his argument. 22 point up. emphasize, stress, accentuate, underline, underscore, accent, spotlight: Such errors point up the need to double-check everything.
poison n. 1 toxin, venom, bane; miasma, mephitis: The chemical plant was found to be releasing poisons into the atmosphere. He kills rats using poison. 2 virus, bane, cancer, canker, corrupt or evil influence, pestilence, plague, blight: The drug barons continue to spread their poison throughout the world. --v. 3 defile, adulterate, infect, taint, pollute; contaminate, debase, pervert, vitiate, subvert, warp, envenom: Chemicals from the nearby plant have poisoned the drinking-water. Why have you poisoned the child's mind against eating spinach? 4 murder, kill, do away with, destroy, dispatch or despatch: Lucrezia Borgia poisoned her enemies in ingenious ways.
polish v. 1 shine, brighten, burnish, buff, furbish, wax, clean, smooth, rub, gloss: He polished up the handles so carefully That now he is the ruler of the Queen's navy. 2 Often, polish up. refine, improve, perfect, finish, cultivate, ameliorate, enhance; correct, emend: If you polish up the article we might consider it for publication. 3 polish off. a conclude, end, terminate, finish: Ned polished off his homework in less than an hour. b kill, slay, murder, dispatch or despatch, destroy, dispose of, do away with, liquidate, eliminate, Slang bump off, rub out, do in, take for a ride: Three platoons were polished off quickly. c dispose of, put away, eat, consume, wolf (down): In a few minutes, MacGregor had polished off the entire meal. 4 polish up. study, review, learn, Archaic con, Colloq bone up (on), Slang Brit swot up (on): If you're going to M laga, you'd better polish up your Spanish. --n. 5 gloss, shine, lustre, sheen, glaze, smoothness, brilliance, sparkle, gleam, glow, brightness, radiance: You cannot imagine what a fine polish she put on that old table. 6 wax, oil: The new polish really put a shine on the desk.
pollute v. 1 contaminate, adulterate, befoul, foul, soil, spoil, taint, stain, dirty, sully, blight, poison: These factories must be prevented from continuing to pollute the atmosphere. 2 corrupt, desecrate, profane, defile, violate: The altar was polluted because it had been touched by a non-believer.
poorly adv. 1 badly, inadequately, unsatisfactorily, incompetently, inexpertly, improperly, crudely, unprofessionally, amateurishly: The decorators you recommended have done their work very poorly indeed. --adj. Colloq 2 unwell, indisposed, ailing, sick, below par, Colloq rotten, under the weather: Charles is rather poorly, I'm afraid.
populous adj. crowded, (heavily) populated, peopled, teeming, thronged, crawling, swarming, jammed, jam-packed, packed: The populous cities contrast with the sparsely inhabited rural areas.
portentous adj. 1 ominous, threatening, momentous, sinister, fateful, alarming, menacing, foreboding, ill-omened, inauspicious, unfavourable, ill-starred, ill-fated, star-crossed, lowering or louring, gloomy, unpromising, unpropitious: Precisely at midnight they appeared with the most portentous news. 2 extraordinary, amazing, astonishing, astounding, prodigious, awesome, awe-inspiring, remarkable, marvellous, phenomenal, fabulous, fantastic, mind-boggling, wondrous, miraculous: The coronation of a British monarch is truly a portentous event.
poseur n. posturer, exhibitionist, pretender, impostor, masquerader, attitudinizer; fake, faker, dissembler, fraud, Colloq show-off, phoney or US also phony: He talks about literature, but he's a poseur who just spouts the opinions of others.
possession n. 1 ownership, title, proprietorship, control, hold, tenure, keeping, care, custody, guardianship, protection: The paintings are now in my possession. 2 holding, territory, province, dominion, colony, protectorate: How long will the Falkland Islands remain a possession of the Crown? 3 possessions. belongings, property, effects, chattels, assets, worldly goods, things: The prison clerk placed all my possessions in an envelope, explaining that they would be returned when I was released. 4 take or gain possession of. seize, capture, take, conquer, occupy, acquire, win, possess oneself of, secure, obtain; repossess: The raiding party gained possession of the port and surrounding area. The finance company has taken possession of my car.
poster n. placard, notice, bill, advertisement, announcement, broadside, broadsheet; circular, flier: Who designed that striking poster for the new play?
pot n. 1 pan, saucepan, cauldron, cook-pot, stewpot; kettle: How many politicians have promised the people 'a chicken in every pot'? 2 jackpot, bank, kitty: You will have to add 5 to the pot to see my hand. 3 pot-belly, paunch, gut, Colloq corporation, beer belly, spare tyre, US bay window: If he exercised more, Patrick wouldn't have such a pot.
pounce v. 1 Often, pounce on or upon. spring (on or upon), leap (at or on), swoop down (on or upon), fall upon, jump (at or on), strike, take by surprise or unawares, attack, ambush, Colloq mug: As I rounded the corner, three youths pounced on me, stole my bag, and ran off. --n. 2 spring, leap, swoop, jump: The cat was on the mantel shelf in a single pounce.
powerful adj. 1 potent, strong, mighty, vigorous, robust, energetic, sturdy, stalwart, tough, resilient, dynamic: Leslie has a powerful physique. The cities of the Hanseatic League had powerful economies. 2 influential, strong, compelling, forceful, potent, substantial, weighty, authoritative, effective; important, impressive, telling, effectual, formidable, persuasive: Powerful arguments have been brought to bear against taking such action. She has many powerful friends. 3 strong, potent; intense, substantial, great, high: The drug is too powerful to be taken regularly. A powerful electrical charge was sent through the wire to test the connection.
praiseworthy adj. commendable, laudable, admirable, creditable, worthy, meritorious, deserving, exemplary: However praiseworthy your motives were, you did not stop to consider the consequences.
preamble n. introduction, foreword, prologue, preface, Formal proem, prolegomenon, exordium: As a preamble to today's proceedings, I should like to welcome our honoured guests.
precinct n. 1 Usually, precincts. area, territory, region, province, environs, purlieus, borders, bounds, confines: Does he have any authority outside the precincts of the city? 2 sphere, neighbourhood, zone, sector, section, quarter, district, locale: In some US cities, the area covered by a police station is called a precinct.
precisely adv. 1 exactly, just, strictly, Colloq on the nail, smack, slap, on the nose, Brit bang on, spot on: His view is precisely the opposite of hers. We left precisely at five o'clock. You phoned, and that is precisely why I came. The two paintings are not precisely the same. 2 exactly, exactingly, correctly, rigorously, absolutely, punctiliously, minutely, carefully, meticulously, scrupulously, conscientiously, strictly, rigidly, inflexibly; in all respects, in every way: This judge follows the letter of the law precisely.
predatory adj. 1 predacious or predaceous, carnivorous, preying, raptorial: Despite domestication, dogs and cats are predatory animals. 2 rapacious, ravenous, plundering, robbing, pillaging, marauding, despoiling, looting, piratical, vulturine, avaricious, greedy, voracious, larcenous, thieving, extortionate, usurious: Predatory pirates once ravaged the Mediterranean. Keep out of the hands of predatory money-lenders, my son.
predominance n. predominancy, superiority, influence, dominance, pre-eminence, preponderance, ascendancy, precedence, power, supremacy, hold, sway, hegemony, leadership, mastery, control, dominion, sovereignty, transcendence or transcendency, authority, the upper hand, the whip hand, advantage, the edge: We must re-establish the predominance of intellectual vigour over crass commercialism.
preface n. 1 introduction, foreword, prologue, preamble, Formal proem, prolegomenon, exordium: By way of preface, I should like to say how happy I am to be here. The preface to the book is far too long. --v. 2 precede, introduce, prefix, begin, open: The speaker prefaced his acceptance speech with a tribute to his predecessor.
prejudiced adj. 1 unfair, one-sided, biased, jaundiced, opinionated, predisposed, partial, partisan, non-objective, unobjective: The prosecution objected to him as a prejudiced witness. 2 bigoted, intolerant, narrow-minded, closed-minded, parochial, sexist, racist, chauvinistic: We have no room in our organization for people who are prejudiced.
premise n. 1 premiss, assumption, proposition, postulate, hypothesis, conjecture, assertion, supposition, thesis, presupposition, proposal, theorem, surmise, basis, ground: He started out with the premise that time had a beginning and will have an end. --v. 2 assume, propose, postulate, hypothesize, hypothecate, conjecture, posit, assert, suppose, presuppose, theorize, surmise, put or set forth, predicate, argue: If you accept what Einstein premised in the Special Theory of Relativity, then you accept that space is curved.
preparedness n. vigilance, alertness, readiness, fitness: The armed forces were kept in a continuous state of preparedness.
prescriptive adj. dictatorial, constrictive, didactic, restrictive, dogmatic, authoritarian, overbearing, autocratic, imperious: As grammar is a description of how language works, it cannot be prescriptive.
preserve v. 1 keep safe, protect, guard, take care of, care for, safeguard, watch over, shield, shelter, defend, spare: What can we do to preserve ourselves from this terrible pestilence? May God preserve me, I never expected to see you again! 2 keep (up), maintain, conserve, spare, perpetuate; continue, support, sustain, save: We developed a technique to preserve antique furniture. The sea preserves much of the heat it absorbs in the summer. It is difficult to preserve one's sanity in this madhouse. 3 conserve, put up, pickle, cure, smoke, kipper, salt, corn, marinate, can, freeze, freeze-dry, refrigerate, dry, dehydrate, vacuum-pack; embalm, mummify: The berries were preserved by bottling and freezing. Some of the remains were preserved for hundreds of years. --n. 4 Often, preserves. conserve(s), jam, jelly, confiture, marmalade: Susan likes thick toast with butter and preserves for tea. 5 (game) reserve, reservation, sanctuary, Brit park: No hunting is allowed in this preserve.
presume v. 1 assume, take for granted, suppose, surmise, infer, suppose, presuppose, take it, gather, understand, think, believe, imagine, suspect, fancy, conjecture, postulate, posit, theorize, speculate, hypothesize, hypothecate, US and Canadian guess: For some unaccountable reason, we presumed that your train would arrive on time. Dr Livingstone, I presume? 2 dare, take the liberty, be so presumptuous as, make (so) bold (as), have the audacity or effrontery, go so far as, venture: Who is he to presume to judge others? 3 Often, presume on or upon. encroach (on or upon), impose (on or upon), take liberties (with), intrude (on or upon or into): I hate to presume on our friendship, but could you lend me some money?
pretender n. claimant, aspirant, candidate, suitor, rival, seeker: He was the pretender to the Scottish throne.
prevalent adj. universal, catholic, common, frequent, prevailing, current, ubiquitous, pervasive, omnipresent, general, usual, customary, commonplace, extensive, widespread, established, ascendant, dominant, predominant, governing, ruling: A desire for change is prevalent throughout the country.
price n. 1 charge, cost, expense, expenditure, outlay, payment, amount, figure, fee; quotation, appraisal, value, valuation, evaluation, worth: The price of this lamp is too high. What is the price of that box? Can he afford the price of a ticket? The current price of a London flat is out of my reach. 2 sacrifice, toll, penalty, cost, consequence: Loss of his freedom was too high a price for standing by his principles. 3 reward, bounty, premium, prize, payment, bonus, honorarium, Literary guerdon: The gunfighter had a price of 1000 on his head. 4 without price. See priceless, 1, below. --v. 5 value, evaluate, rate, assay, assess, cost (out): How would you price a piece of furniture like this chair?
priestly adj. clerical, ecclesiastic, pastoral, hieratic, sacerdotal; ministerial, canonical, missionary: She has taken her priestly vows.
princely adj. 1 lavish, bountiful, generous, liberal, ample, substantial, huge, enormous: They paid a princely sum for their stately home in Surrey. 2 lavish, magnificent, splendid, luxurious, majestic, royal, regal, sumptuous, superb, Colloq ritzy, swank(y), posh, plush: The hotel laid on princely accommodation for us with rooms overlooking the sea. 3 royal, noble, regal, sovereign, of royal or noble blood or rank: Who would have thought that our humble home would ever shelter a princely guest?
prisoner n. convict, trusty; internee, detainee; Colloq jailbird or Brit also gaolbird, lifer, Slang con, Brit (old) lag, Old-fashioned ticket-of-leave man, US two-time or three-time loser: Prisoners' letters were censored.
privy adj. 1 See privileged, 4, above. 2 privy to. aware of, in on, on to or onto, sharing (in), cognizant of, apprised of, informed or advised about or of, informed on, knowledgeable about, Colloq in the know about, Slang hip to, wise to, Old-fashioned hep to: Was the minister's wife privy to what was discussed at cabinet meetings? --n. 3 lavatory, (outside or outdoor) toilet, latrine, water-closet, WC, US outhouse, Colloq chiefly Brit loo, Slang Brit bog, US crapper, Taboo slang US shithouse: In those days, almost every home had an outside privy, as there was no interior plumbing.
problem n. 1 difficulty, trouble, question, dilemma, quandary, predicament, complication, hornet's nest, imbroglio, mess, muddle, stew, Colloq can of worms, fine kettle of fish, (pretty) pickle, Brit facer: The Chancellor must constantly deal with the problems of the country's economy. 2 puzzle, conundrum, poser, riddle, question, enigma, puzzler, Colloq mind-boggler, hard or tough nut to crack: The problem is how to get the yolk out without breaking the shell. --adj. 3 unruly, unmanageable, intractable, uncontrollable, difficult, ungovernable, refractory, incorrigible, obstreperous, delinquent, maladjusted, disturbed, emotionally upset: He teaches at a school where most of the students are problem children.
proclamation n. 1 announcement, advertisement, declaration, publication, promulgation, statement, manifesto, pronunciamento, notification, notice: A proclamation was issued granting amnesty to all political prisoners. 2 proclaiming, announcing, advertising, declaring, broadcasting, publishing, promulgating, heralding, making known, bruiting about: The proclamation of his appointment as Chancellor came at a bad time.
prodigy n. 1 (child or girl or boy) genius, wonder child, Wunderkind, mastermind, talent, intellect, intellectual or mental giant, wizard, virtuoso, Colloq brain, Einstein, whiz-kid or whizz-kid, whiz or whizz, walking dictionary or encyclopedia or encyclopaedia: She was a prodigy at the age of six and went on to become a great concert performer. 2 wonder, marvel, phenomenon, sensation, miracle: Some regarded the painting Nude Descending a Staircase a prodigy of cubist art.
profess v. 1 assert, claim, aver, asseverate, state, affirm, confirm, confess, declare, say, hold, maintain, present, offer, proffer, tender, set forth, put forward, pronounce, enounce, enunciate, announce, utter, vow, avow: He professed himself satisfied with the judge's decision. 2 pretend, lay claim, make a pretence, purport, act as if, simulate: They professed to be legitimate businessmen, but I was always suspicious.
profitable adj. 1 beneficial, productive, lucrative, fruitful, (well-)paying, well-paid, worthwhile, effective, cost-effective, gainful, remunerative, money-making, rewarding: I had never thought of being a pavement artist as a profitable enterprise. Playing professional golf can be very profitable - if you win tournaments. 2 beneficial, helpful, useful, utilitarian, valuable, worthwhile, advantageous, productive, rewarding: She gave me a lot of good advice that I found profitable in my professional life.
profusion n. profuseness, quantity, abundance, plenty, plentifulness, plenteousness, bounty, copiousness, superabundance; mass, host, hoard, number, multitude, lot, mountain, load, mess, stack, pile, heap, agglomeration, conglomeration, accumulation, wealth, glut, surplus, oversupply, surfeit, plethora, superfluity, Formal nimiety: Ivy grew in profusion over the front of the house. We had never seen such a profusion of bric--brac as they had collected.
progressive adj. 1 advancing, continuing, developing, increasing, growing, ongoing, continuous, step by step, gradual: The doctors noted the progressive deterioration in his condition. With the onset of spring, we shall see progressive improvement in the weather. 2 reformist, revisionist, liberal, radical, revolutionary, avant-garde, advanced, dynamic: Carrie was soon regarded as one of the more progressive thinkers of her day. --n. 3 reformist, reformer, revisionist, liberal, leftist, left-winger: Once a conservative, he did a complete volte-face after the war and became a progressive.
proliferation n. growth, increase, burgeoning or bourgeoning, expansion, spread, escalation, build-up, rise: Some attribute the increase in violent crime to the proliferation of hand-guns.
promising adj. hopeful, encouraging, favourable, auspicious, positive, rosy, optimistic, propitious, cheering, full of promise, reassuring, heartening: I see a promising future for you as a dancer.
pronouncement n. 1 statement, assertion, observation, comment, opinion, announcement, proclamation, pronunciamento, manifesto, declaration, avowal, affirmation, asseveration, averment, promulgation: Occasionally he would issue a pronouncement on the sad state of English usage. 2 judgement, decree, edict, proclamation, dictum, command, ukase, (papal) bull, imperative, order, ordinance: The authorities made several official pronouncements regarding travel restrictions.
properly adv. 1 appropriately, fittingly, correctly, well, becomingly, suitably, politely, decently, decorously, nicely: If you cannot behave properly I shall have to ask you to leave. 2 duly, appropriately, well, suitably, rightly, correctly, aptly: Are they properly equipped for the rescue mission?
proponent n. proposer, promoter, supporter, upholder, backer, subscriber, patron, espouser, adherent, enthusiast, champion, friend, partisan, defender, advocate, exponent, pleader, apologist, spokesman, spokeswoman, spokesperson: Ashley is a staunch proponent of the literacy movement.
propriety n. 1 correctness, properness, conformity, suitableness, appropriateness, suitability, aptness, fitness, seemliness, decorum; advisability, wisdom: I questioned the propriety of concealing this information from shareholders. 2 protocol, good or proper form, punctilio, etiquette, politeness, courtesy, politesse, refinement, sedateness, dignity, modesty, decorum, decency, breeding, respectability, gentility, grace, mannerliness: He always behaved with the utmost propriety in the presence of his aunt. 3 the proprieties. the social graces, the amenities, the civilities, formality or the formalities, social convention or the social conventions, social procedure or codes, accepted practice, tradition, ceremony, ritual: He only observes the proprieties when he wants to make a good impression.
prosper v. flourish, thrive, succeed, fare well, progress, get ahead, grow, develop; profit, gain, become wealthy, grow rich, make one's fortune, make good, Colloq make it, make one's pile: With hard work, thrift, and perseverance, MacIntosh prospered and was soon able to buy the house he wanted.
protean adj. variable, ever-changing, multiform, variable, mutable, changeable, labile, polymorphous or polymorphic, kaleidoscopic: The magic ring gave him protean powers to appear now as an eagle, now as a serpent.
prototype n. 1 model, archetype, first, original, pattern, exemplar, precedent, mould: Many improvements were made as a result of tests on the original prototype. 2 example, instance, illustration, sample, norm, paragon, epitome, model, standard, analogue, referent, metaphor: Mrs Grundy is a common prototype for narrow-mindedness and prudishness.
proverb n. saying, maxim, aphorism, saw, adage, apophthegm or apothegm, axiom, moral, moralism, homily, dictum, gnome, epigram, commonplace, platitude, truism, clich, bromide: According to the old proverb, 'A fool and his money are soon parted'.
provincial adj. 1 local, regional: Provincial administration is the responsibility of the sheriff. 2 uncultured, uncultivated, unsophisticated, limited, uninformed, nave, innocent, ingenuous, unpolished, unrefined, homespun, rustic, rude, country, parochial, insular, narrow-minded, boorish, loutish, cloddish, awkward, ungraceful, oafish, backwood(s), Brit parish pump, US small-town, Colloq US and Canadian hick, hick-town: These paintings are unlikely to appeal to provincial tastes. --n. 3 rustic, country cousin, (country) bumpkin, yokel, US and Canadian out-of-towner, hick, hayseed: One could tell they were provincials by the cut of their clothes.
prowess n. 1 ability, skill, skilfulness, aptitude, adroitness, dexterity, dexterousness, adeptness, facility, finesse, expertise, mastery, genius, talent, know-how, ingenuity, capability, proficiency: Her prowess as a sculptor is unquestioned. 2 bravery, valour, courage, boldness, daring, intrepidity, dauntlessness, mettle, stout-heartedness, valiance, lion-heartedness, fearlessness, gallantry, doughtiness, fortitude: He was famed for his prowess in single combat.
prudish adj. priggish, puritanical, old-maidish, prissy, prim, fussy, squeamish, strait-laced, stiff, rigid, over-nice, over-modest, over-coy, proper, demure, decorous, formal: Victorian society was both prudish and prurient.
psychology n. (mental) make-up, constitution, attitude, behaviour, thought processes, thinking, psyche, nature, feeling(s), emotion(s), rationale, reasoning: I cannot understand the psychology of fascism.
puerile adj. childish, immature, babyish, infantile, juvenile, silly, asinine, foolish, trivial, ridiculous, irresponsible, shallow, inconsequential, insignificant, US sophomoric: Stop that puerile horseplay and settle down.
pulley n. sheave, block: The rope is run through a system of pulleys, called a tackle, for lifting weights.
punch n. 1 awl, auger, bodkin, perforator; drill, brace and bit: Use the punch to make another hole in your belt. --v. 2 pierce, stab, puncture, perforate; bore, drill: She uses a needle to punch a tiny hole in each end of the egg.
punitive adj. chastening, castigatory, disciplinary, retributive, punitory, retaliatory, correctional: A punitive expedition was sent there to quell the colonists' uprising.
purchase v. 1 buy, acquire, procure, obtain, get, secure, pay for: He recently purchased a new personal computer and cannot get it to work. Not long ago, a shilling purchased a loaf of bread. 2 win, gain, achieve, realize, attain, obtain: His liberty was purchased by the betrayal of his colleagues. --n. 3 acquisition, acquiring, buying, purchasing, obtaining, securing, procurement: The purchase of books for the university library is the responsibility of Monica Turnbull. 4 buy, acquisition: Tom returned from the shop carrying his purchases. 5 grip, hold, support, toe-hold, foothold, grasp; leverage, position, advantage, edge: The climber was having trouble getting a good purchase on the icy ledge.
purity n. 1 pureness, faultlessness, correctness, flawlessness, perfection, spotlessness, cleanness, cleanliness, clarity; healthfulness, wholesomeness, salubrity; innocuousness, harmlessness: The purity of the drinking-water has been affected by the nearby chemical plant. 2 chastity, chasteness, virginity, virtuousness, virtue, morality, propriety, honesty, integrity, rectitude, properness, innocence, guilelessness, decency, decorousness, modesty, blamelessness, sinlessness: We never had any reason to doubt the purity of their character.
pushover n. 1 sure thing, Colloq piece of cake, child's play, snap, cinch, picnic, walk-over, US breeze, Slang cinch, Brit doddle, US lead-pipe cinch: The Latin exam was a pushover. 2 Colloq walk-over, chump, soft touch, soft or easy mark, easy prey or game, Slang patsy, sucker, stooge, sap, Brit mug, US and Canadian milquetoast: I spotted him at once as a pushover for the find-the-lady con.
put-up adj. (secretly) preconceived, prearranged, plotted, preconcerted: If the butler had a hand in it, you know it was a put-up job.
qualified adj. 1 able, suitable, capable, competent, fit, fitted, equipped, prepared, ready, trained, proficient, accomplished, expert, talented, adept, skilful, skilled, experienced, practised, knowledgeable, well-informed: Is Kimble qualified to become foreman? 2 contingent, conditional, restricted, modified, limited, provisional: The chairman has given his qualified approval to the scheme.
quarry n. prey, game, prize, object: The hunter's dogs had run their quarry to ground. Wealthy widows were regarded as fair quarry by the swindlers.
queen n. 1 sovereign, monarch, ruler; empress; queen consort; queen mother; queen dowager: She was absolutely thrilled when she was invited to a garden party at Buckingham Palace and met the Queen. 2 beauty queen, movie queen, star, prima donna, diva; epitome, model, idol, leading light, cynosure, leader: At the height of her career, she was known as 'the Queen of the Silver Screen'. 'Queen of the Antilles' was once a nickname of Cuba.
questionable adj. doubtful, dubious, debatable, moot, disputable, borderline, suspect, suspicious, shady; open to question, in question, in dispute, problematic(al), uncertain, arguable, unsure, unreliable, ambiguous: The evidence shows that the defendant engaged in questionable banking practices while a director of Offshore Ltd. The advantages of quick divorce are questionable.
quiet adj. 1 silent, soundless, noiseless, hushed, still: We have to be very quiet so as not to wake the children. 2 still, serene, silent, peaceful, unperturbed, calm, tranquil, placid, pacific, smooth, mild, restful, unagitated: The sea was very quiet as we rowed towards the beach. 3 dormant, quiescent, inactive, retired, withdrawn, unobtrusive: His last days were spent living a quiet life in the Outer Hebrides. 4 still, motionless, unmoving, fixed, stationary, at rest, inactive, composed, temperate, unexcited, calm: There was a knock at the door and everyone suddenly became quiet. --n. 5 silence, stillness, soundlessness, noiselessness, hush, quietness, quietude, ease, rest, calmness, serenity, tranquillity, peace, peace of mind, repose: In the quiet of the cave I could hear my heart beating. --v. 6 See quieten, below.
quiver v. 1 shake, tremble, vibrate, shiver, quaver; shudder, tremor, oscillate, fluctuate, wobble: He felt his lips quivering as he told her that he was dying. The outcome of the contest quivered in the balance. --n. 2 tremble, quaver, shudder, spasm, shake, tremor, shiver: Pierced by the dart, the tiny bird fell to the earth, gave a little quiver, and lay still.
rabble-rouser n. agitator, demagogue, instigator, inciter, firebrand, incendiary, radical, troublemaker, agent provocateur, revolutionary, insurrectionist, Colloq hell-raiser: The crowd was whipped into a frenzy by a rabble-rouser who was not identified.
raconteur n. storyteller, anecdotalist or anecdotist, narrator, relater or relator, Colloq spinner of yarns: The after-dinner speaker was a marvellous raconteur with a wealth of stories about the theatre.
raffle n. lottery, draw, sweepstake or US sweepstakes, sweep or US sweeps: The church is holding a raffle for a new car next week.
rail n. 1 bar, rod, handrail, foot-rail , towel-rail; railing, banisters, balustrade, baluster, fence: Don't lean on the rail or it will break. 2 by or via rail. by train, by railway or US also railroad: We travelled by rail from Paris to Geneva.
rake n. libertine, womanizer, lecher, rou, playboy, ladies' man, Don Juan, Casanova, Lothario, debauchee, voluptuary, profligate, prodigal; scoundrel, rascal, cad, Archaic rakehell, masher; Colloq lady-killer, Colloq old-fashioned wolf, Brit bounder: Lady Anne was led stray by some young rake, a friend of the Prince Regent's.
ramp n. slope, grade, gradient, incline; rise, ascent, acclivity; descent, dip, declivity: There is a special ramp in the theatre for wheelchair access.
random adj. 1 haphazard, chance, fortuitous, serendipitous, aleatory, arbitrary, casual, stray, occasional, indefinite, indiscriminate, non-specific, unspecific, unspecified, unordered, unorganized, undirected, unpremeditated, unplanned, accidental, uncalculated, unsystematic, adventitious, incidental, hit-or-miss: He used a computer program to generate random numbers. A random selection of slips was drawn from the drum and Madelaine's name was on one of them. 2 at random. randomly, haphazardly, fortuitously, by chance, serendipitously, arbitrarily, casually, occasionally, (every) now and then, (every) once in a while, irregularly, indefinitely, erratically, indiscriminately, unsystematically, adventitiously, incidentally, unpremeditatedly: They picked names from a hat at random. They drove up and down the road, firing at random.
ransom n. 1 redemption, rescue, deliverance; release, liberation: The envoy was held to ransom by a fanatical band of zealots. 2 payment, payout, pay-off, price: The police refuse to reveal the amount of the ransom given to the kidnappers. --v. 3 redeem, rescue, release, deliver: The boy was ransomed for 10,000.
rapidly adv. 1 quickly, fast, swiftly, speedily, briskly, expeditiously, like a shot, at the speed of light, double-quick, at full speed, like one possessed, at a gallop, tantivy, Colloq like blazes, like (greased) lightning, US lickety-split, Slang like a bat out of hell, like mad: He cycled down the High Street as rapidly as he could go. 2 promptly, instantly, instantaneously, instanter, without delay, at once, straight away, right away, in a moment, in a trice, like a shot, in a wink, in (less than) no time, double-quick, in a flash, at the speed of light, before you (can) turn around, Colloq in a jiffy, in two shakes (of a lamb's tail), like (greased) lightning, before you can say 'Jack Robinson', US and Canadian (right) off the bat, lickety-split, Slang like a bat out of hell: When I mentioned that you were coming, she left rapidly.
rarefied adj. 1 thin, lean, attenuated, diluted, sparse, scant, scanty: As we climbed higher, the rarefied atmosphere made breathing more difficult. 2 exalted, lofty, elevated, high, sublime, noble, high: I feel out of place in the rarefied atmosphere of academia. 3 cliquish, clannish, exclusive, private, select, esoteric: Clarence copes well in the rarefied atmosphere of Whitehall's corridors of power.
rate v. scold, berate, reprimand, rebuke, reproach, reprove, take to task, upbraid, censure, Colloq bawl out, dress down, US and Canadian chew out: I was rated severely for staying out after midnight.
rattle v. 1 clatter: An acorn dropped from an overhanging tree and rattled down the tin roof. 2 shake, vibrate, jar, joggle, jiggle: The wind was strong enough to rattle the windows in their frames. 3 unnerve, disconcert, discomfit, disturb, perturb, shake, discountenance, upset, agitate, put off, Chiefly US and Canadian faze: They are only trying to rattle us by saying that we might lose our jobs if we strike. 4 jounce, bounce, bump, jolt, speed, hurtle: The stagecoach came rattling down the road, swaying wildly. 5 rattle off. recite, list, utter, reel off, run through, enumerate, call off: The announcer rattled off a long list of trains cancelled because of the storm. 6 rattle on. chatter, babble, jabber, gibber, prate, prattle, blabber, cackle, blather, ramble, Chiefly Brit witter, natter, Slang US run off at the mouth: The speaker kept rattling on and on about the delights of collecting beer cans. --n. 7 clatter, racket, noise; rale or rle, crackle, crackling; death-rattle: I heard the rattle of the beans and knew you were about to grind the coffee. The doctor said he didn't like the rattle in my chest. 8 clapper, sistrum, US noise-maker: Rattles have been used as musical instruments for thousands of years.
raving adj. 1 mad, insane, berserk, raging, crazy, crazed, irrational, manic, maniacal, frantic, frenzied, delirious, hysterical; out of one's mind or head: He stood there shouting and screaming, like a raving lunatic. 2 extraordinary, outstanding, unusual, rare, uncommon, phenomenal, great, striking, ravishing, Colloq stunning: Diana had been a raving beauty in her time. --n. 3 Often, ravings. rant, ranting, bombast, pomposity, grandiloquence, magniloquence, rodomontade, rhetoric, bluster, blustering, claptrap, balderdash, puffery, bunkum, flatulence, hyperbole, vapouring, fustian, Colloq hot air, bunk: Why must we be subjected to the ravings of this politician? 4 gabble, babble, babbling, gibberish, Colloq gab: This is nothing more than the raving of a maniac.
reaction n. 1 response, reply, answer, effect, feedback: Did you get any reaction when you told her I had been arrested? Her reaction was to turn over and go back to sleep. 2 repulsion, resistance, counteraction, counterbalance, compensation: A rocket derives forward thrust by reaction against its own exhaust, hence can operate in a vacuum. 3 retaliation, reciprocation, reprisal, revenge: He shot her in reaction to her announcement that she was leaving him.
real adj. 1 genuine, true, actual, authentic, verified, verifiable, legitimate, right, bona fide, official; legal, legitimate, licit, natural, valid, veritable: He says that his name is Smith, but what is his real name? Her diamonds are not real. It has been proved beyond the shadow of a doubt that he is the real father. 2 genuine, actual, true, existent, authentic, natural; material, physical, tangible, palpable, corporeal: How can one distinguish between the real object and what one sees, which is merely its image? 3 genuine, sincere, heartfelt, true, actual, unfeigned, unaffected, earnest, honest, truthful, legitimate, valid: Deirdre's face is so impassive that it is impossible to tell what her real feelings are. What's the real reason that you're here? 4 genuine, actual, true, loyal, trustworthy, trusted, honest: You are a real friend, and I know I can count on you. 5 intrinsic, actual, true, genuine, proper, essential: The 150 million sale of the company fell significantly below its real value. --adv. 6 See really, below.
reap v. 1 harvest, garner, glean, gather (in), mow, take in or up: The land was fertile, and a bountiful crop was reaped. As ye sow, so shall ye reap. 2 profit, bring in, gain, procure, acquire, get, obtain, take in: It is impossible to reap much when there is so small a margin between cost and selling price.
rebel v. 1 revolt, mutiny, rise up: The people will rebel if subjected to more oppression. 2 Often, rebel against. defy, flout, dare, challenge; disobey, dissent: It is in the nature of young people to rebel against authority and the status quo. --n. 3 revolutionary, revolutionist, insurgent, insurrrectionist, mutineer, resister, resistance fighter, freedom fighter: We call ourselves fighters for justice, but the unjust call us rebels and traitors. 4 heretic, nonconformist, apostate, dissenter, recusant, schismatic: James's problem was that he was a rebel without a cause.
rebuttal n. answer, reply, retort, response, rejoinder, counter-argument, riposte, retaliation, denial, refutation, contradiction, confutation, Colloq comeback: In rebuttal, the defence tried to prove that the witness for the prosecution had been bribed.
recent adj. late, latest, new, just out, brand-new, fresh; current, modern, up to date, late-model: This feature is now supplied as standard on all our more recent models. Recent arrivals will be interviewed by the committee.
reciprocal adj. mutual, exchanged, returned, complementary, correlative, common, shared, joint, requited: The reciprocal courtesies enjoyed among our neighbours benefit us all.
reclaim v. restore, recover, rescue, redeem, salvage, save, regain, retrieve, regenerate, rejuvenate: Much of the farmland was reclaimed from the sea.
recommend v. 1 counsel, advise, guide, urge, exhort, suggest, advocate, propose, (put) forward, propound, persuade: He recommended that the entire system should be changed. 2 endorse, praise, commend, mention favourably, vouch for, second, subscribe to, back, push, favour, approve, underwrite, stand up for, support, promote, Colloq tout, plug: I wish Charles would stop recommending his brother-in-law for a job with us. 3 make attractive or advisable or interesting or acceptable: Wendover has little to recommend it as a tourist spot.
recount v. 1 relate, narrate, tell, recite, report, communicate, impart, unfold: The old man recounted for us the legend of the two-headed lamb. 2 particularize, review, detail, describe, enumerate, specify: Must I recount every particular all over again?
rectify v. correct, revise, redress, put or set right, cure, repair, remedy, improve, emend, fix, adjust, square, ameliorate: What do you intend to do to rectify the damage you have done?
redolent adj. 1 fragrant, sweet-smelling, aromatic, perfumed, odorous, scented, savoury: The entire house was redolent with the odour of pine needles. 2 redolent with or of. reminiscent of, suggestive of, evocative of, remindful of, characteristic of, having the earmarks or hallmark of: The style of the film is redolent of 1930s Hollywood.
refined adj. 1 cultivated, cultured, civilized, polished, sophisticated, urbane, elegant, well-bred, genteel, courtly, ladylike, gentlemanly, polite, courteous, mannerly, well-mannered, gracious, gentle, noble, aristocratic, dignified, elevated, Colloq posh: It is seldom that I find myself in such refined company. 2 subtle, discriminating, discerning, sensitive, fastidious, nice, precise, exacting, cultured, educated, cultivated, knowledgeable, advanced, sophisticated: Her taste in the visual arts is fairly refined, but she knows little about music. 3 exact, precise, fine, subtle, sensitive, nice, sophisticated: In his poetry one encounters an extremely refined use of metaphor. These new devices are far more refined than any previously available. 4 purified, clarified, cleansed, pure, clean; distilled: Only refined chemicals may be used in pharmaceuticals.
refrain n. melody, song, tune, chorus, burden, reprise: It was one of those long boring folk songs with a refrain that we were all supposed to join in.
refusal n. 1 denial, rejection, disapproval, turn-down: She pleaded against the grand vizier's refusal to grant amnesty to her brother. 2 option, choice, privilege, disposal: We were promised first refusal on the house should it come on the market.
regardless adj. 1 Sometimes, regardless of. despite, notwithstanding; in spite of, heedless of, Non-Standard irregardless: Regardless of her father's protestations, she continued to go out with William. --adv. 2 notwithstanding, nevertheless, no matter what, in any event, in any case, at all events, anyway, anyhow, Non-Standard irregardless: She heard his threats but is going out with William regardless.
regularity n. 1 consistency, constancy, uniformity, evenness, sameness, symmetry, balance, harmony, harmoniousness, orderliness, order, stability, predictability: To the casual observer, nothing interferes with the regularity of planetary movement. 2 routine, reliability, dependability, steadiness, invariability; pace, rhythm, cadence: Mr Warbridge listens to the six o'clock evening news with unfailing regularity. Our business depends on the regularity of the postal service. The regularity of the ticking of the clock is driving me mad.
reign n. 1 rule, sovereignty, ascendancy, power, hegemony, influence, command, suzerainty, administration, jurisdiction, leadership, government, direction, control, domination, mastery; kingdom, monarchy, empire: During her reign, the kingdom saw its greatest prosperity. --v. 2 rule, control, command, govern, lead, direct, dominate, supervise, manage, hold sway, wear the crown, wield the sceptre, occupy the throne, Colloq run the show, rule the roost, Slang call the shots: During the sixth Egyptian dynasty, Pepi II Nefektare reigned for 94 years, the longest in recorded history. 3 prevail, be or become prevalent, predominate, hold sway, obtain, be or become rampant, be or become universal: An argument broke out, which developed into a fist fight, and soon pandemonium reigned.
rejoice v. delight, exult, glory, celebrate, revel, be happy or delighted or pleased or overjoyed or elated or glad, Colloq be tickled (pink): We all rejoiced to be home once again after the ordeal.
relatively adv. more or less, somewhat, comparatively, rather, to some degree or extent: Business has been relatively quiet lately.
relevance n. relevancy, appropriateness, aptness, pertinence, bearing, connection, affinity, tie-in, relation, significance, suitability, suitableness, applicability, application, applicableness: What you just said has no relevance whatsoever to the issue under discussion.
religious adj. 1 devout, churchgoing, pious, God-fearing, holy, spiritual-minded: You never struck me as a particularly religious person. 2 scrupulous, exact, precise, conscientious, rigorous, strict, fastidious, meticulous, faithful, punctilious, unerring, unswerving, undeviating: Edmund's work is characterized by religious devotion to detail.
remaining adj. 1 left (over), extant, outstanding: I did as much as I could in the time remaining. 2 leftover, surviving, residual; unused, uneaten, unconsumed: The remaining books will be sold at auction.
reminisce v. Sometimes, reminisce about. remember, recollect, think back, look back, turn one's mind or thoughts back; call to mind, hark back, return: Most of the time we just sit about and reminisce. The other day we were reminiscing about the time Alex was arrested for shoplifting.
remorse n. regret, repentance, ruefulness, sorrow, woe, anxiety, guilty or bad conscience, pangs of conscience, humiliation, embarrassment, guilt, self-reproach, mortification, shame, contrition, contriteness, penitence, compunction, bitterness: It is impossible to describe the remorse he felt at having run over the little girl's puppy.
rend v. 1 rip or tear or pull (to pieces or apart or asunder), wrench, mangle, shred: The bully threatened to rend me limb from limb. 2 split, tear, rip, rupture, cleave, split, rive, separate, slice, lacerate: When the balloon was rent from top to bottom, the basket fell to the ground. 3 pain, distress, pierce, stab, smite, wound, afflict, torment, wring, hurt: My heart was rent by conflicting emotions.
renovate v. redecorate, modernize, do over, refurbish, refurnish, refit, remodel; recondition, rehabilitate, restore, repair, revamp, overhaul, patch up, Colloq do up, US fix up: We are having the entire house renovated by an interior decorator. It was quite costly to have those paintings renovated.
repeal v. 1 revoke, recall, rescind, reverse, cancel, annul, nullify, invalidate, void, set aside, abolish, abrogate, Law vacate: They have repealed the rule forbidding guests to wear shorts in the restaurant. --n. 2 revocation, recall, rescission, rescindment, reversal, cancellation, annulment, nullification, invalidation, voiding, abolition, abrogation: Alcoholic beverages were forbidden in the US until the repeal of Prohibition.
repertory n. repertoire, store, reservoir, collection, hoard, cache, repository, stock, supply, inventory, stockpile: Cosgrove felt compelled to run through his entire repertory of jokes at dinner.
reply v. 1 answer, respond, rejoin, retort, return, come back, acknowledge: When I asked where he had been, he refused to reply and walked out of the room. --n. 2 answer, response, rejoinder, retort, comeback, riposte, reaction, US rise: I have written to the prime minister but as yet have had no reply.
repression n. 1 restraint, suppression, subjugation: Increasing repression of their liberties finally led the people to revolt. 2 check, squelching, control, inhibition, hampering, hindering, hindrance, stifling, deterring, frustration, frustrating: The repression of the revolt was unsuccessful.
reproduction n. 1 duplication, copying, printing: Unlicensed reproduction of this film is against the law. 2 duplicate, copy, print, clone, carbon (copy), facsimile, replica, look-alike, double, twin, imitation: The reproductions look better than the original. 3 propagation, breeding, spawning, proliferation, production: Today's lecture concerns reproduction and breeding habits of large sea-mammals. reproof n. See reprimand, 1, above. reprove v. See reprimand, 2, above.
request v. 1 ask for, seek, plead for, apply for, put in for, requisition, call for, demand, insist on, solicit, beg, entreat, beseech, importune: They request my cooperation. I requested to be excused. He requested her to open the door for him. --n. 2 plea, petition, application, requisition, call, demand, solicitation, entreaty: We receive many requests for information.
resemblance n. likeness, similarity; correspondence, congruity, coincidence, conformity, accord, agreement, equivalence, comparableness, comparability, comparison: There is a striking resemblance between your wife and mine. Any resemblance is purely a matter of chance.
residence n. 1 abode, home, domicile, dwelling, dwelling-place, place, house, habitation, (living) quarters: A crowd was waiting to greet them outside their residence. 2 residency, stay, sojourn, visit, tenancy: During his residence in Cape Province, he became bilingual in Xhosa. 3 mansion, villa, manor (house), stately home, estate, chteau, castle, palace, Brit hall: The ambassadorial residence was a very imposing structure.
resistance n. 1 opposition, defiance, refusal, denial, obstruction, intransigence, rebelliousness, recalcitrance, stubbornness: The child puts up considerable resistance to any form of discipline. 2 defences: My resistance is low, I can deny you nothing. 3 Resistance. underground, partisans, freedom fighters, guerrilla or guerilla movement, guerrillas or guerillas, irregulars, Maquis, US resisters: During the war, he was a member of the Resistance and engaged in sabotage against the invaders.
resource n. 1 Often, resources. initiative, ingenuity, talent, inventiveness, imagination, imaginativeness, cleverness, quick-wittedness, capability, resourcefulness, aptitude, qualifications, strength, quality, forte, Colloq Brit gumption, Slang guts: Has he the inner resources for the job that lies ahead? 2 Often, resources. capital, assets, money, possessions, wealth, property, cash, funds: She has sufficient resources to retire at fifty if she wants to.
respond v. 1 answer, reply, come back, return, react, reciprocate, counter; rejoin, retort: When Sean insulted her, Una responded with a slap to his face. I said, 'Good morning!' and Adrian responded, 'What's good about it?' 2 Often, respond to. be responsive (to), react (to), empathize (with), sympathize (with), commiserate (with), feel for, pity, be affected or moved or touched (by): Many respond to those charity appeals for the crippled and disabled.
restitution n. 1 amends, compensation, redress, recompense, remuneration, reparation, requital, indemnification, indemnity: It was agreed that victims of the raids were entitled to restitution for what had been taken from them. 2 restoration, return, re-establishment, reinstatement, recovery: A commission is to investigate the restitution of plundered property.
restriction n. 1 condition, provision, proviso, qualification, stipulation: One restriction is that purchasers of shares in the utility must be resident in the UK. 2 See restraint, 1, above.
retard v. 1 slow (down or up), hold up or back, set back, hinder, impede, delay, keep back, stall, thwart, balk, block, restrict, hold in check, frustrate, interfere with: Growth of the economy was severely retarded by the war. --n. 2 Offensive and derogatory idiot, moron, fool, imbecile, dunce, Slang chiefly US and Canadian jerk: Why she invites that retard to her parties I can't imagine.
retreat n. 1 retirement, withdrawal, pulling or falling or drawing back, giving ground, evacuation, flight: The regiment's retreat in the face of overwhelming odds is complete. 2 retirement, seclusion, withdrawal, isolation, solitude, rustication: Since her retreat from public life, she has devoted herself to painting. 3 sanctuary, sanctum (sanctorum), refuge, shelter, den, haven, asylum, resort, hideaway, hide-out: Antonia insisted on having her own retreat where she could occasionally escape from the children. --v. 4 withdraw, decamp, run (away), turn tail, depart, give or lose ground, pull or fall or draw back, retire, evacuate, flee, take flight: We must retreat to the shelter of the hills, where we can regroup. 5 ebb, draw or move back, recede: The waves, constantly advancing and retreating across the pebbly strand, lulled me to sleep.
revelation n. news, information, proclamation, publication, bulletin, communiqu, announcement, pronouncement, declaration, statement, leak; admission, confession; discovery, unveiling, uncovering, exposure, disclosure, expos: We were shocked at the revelation that they had been married all these years. Scientists' revelations about the depletion of the ozone layer are causing widespread concern.
reverse adj. 1 opposite, contrary, inverse, converse; inverted, upside down, mirror, reversed, backward: Now try turning the wheel in the reverse direction. What appears on the retina is a reverse image, which the brain inverts. --v. 2 invert, overturn, turn upside down, turn topsy-turvy, turn over, up-end; exchange, change, interchange, transpose: Using your finger to keep the mercury from running out, reverse the tube in the dish of mercury. Perhaps the car will start if you reverse the leads to the battery. 3 overturn, overthrow, upset, set aside, quash, override, annul, nullify, vacate, abandon, revoke, negate, veto, declare null and void, disaffirm, invalidate, cancel, repeal, rescind, overrule, countermand, undo: The superior tribunal reversed the decision of the lower-court judge. 4 alter, change, modify; renounce, recant, take back: Reverse the polarity of the wiring. I reversed my opinion after hearing her sing. 5 back up, move or go backwards or US also backward, backtrack, Nautical make sternway: You will be in the right spot if you reverse a yard or two. --n. 6 opposite, contrary, converse, antithesis: Whatever she tells you, I suggest you do the reverse. 7 back, rear, wrong side, verso, underside; flip side, B-side; tail side: Read what it says on the reverse. 8 set-back, disappointment, misfortune, reversal, mishap, misadventure, trouble, problem, difficulty, vicissitude, adversity, defeat; disaster, catastrophe, dbacle, rout, Colloq washout: We suffered a temporary reverse or two in business, but we're all right now. United suffered a humiliating reverse against Wanderers in the cup last week.
revolt n. 1 rebellion, revolution, uprising, mutiny, insurrection, coup d'tat, putsch, take-over: The council ordered the secret police to suppress the revolt. --v. 2 rebel, rise up, mutiny; protest, dissent: After years of oppression, the people revolted and deposed their leaders. 3 repel, offend, disgust, shock, horrify, repulse, nauseate, sicken: I was revolted by the poverty and sickness I saw in that country.
rewarding adj. satisfying, gratifying, worthwhile, enriching, enriched, fruitful, worthwhile; profitable, advantageous, productive, gainful: Laurence says that his most rewarding experience has been seeing his children again.
rich adj. 1 wealthy, affluent, prosperous, well-to-do, well off, well provided for, opulent, moneyed, in clover, on velvet, Colloq flush, loaded, on Easy Street, rolling in it or money or wealth, in the chips or the dough or the money, well-heeled, US well-fixed: A year ago Montmorency was a rich man, but that was before Blue Thursday on the Stock Exchange. 2 Sometimes, rich in. abundant (in), overflowing (with), fertile (in), fecund (in), productive (of), copious (in), abounding in, well supplied (with), well stocked (with), rife (with), replete (with), profuse (in or with): The rich prairie land was soon yielding abundant harvests. The surrounding mountains were rich in minerals of all kinds. 3 valuable, precious, invaluable, priceless: For centuries the islanders have enjoyed the rich bounty of the seas. The thieves who broke into the vaults got a rich haul. 4 costly, expensive, dear, valuable, invaluable, precious, priceless, lavish, sumptuous, lush, luxurious, palatial, elaborate, splendid, exquisite, superb, elegant: The caravans returned laden with rich treasures of the Orient silks, jewels, spices, rare woods, and other luxuries. 5 intense, dark, deep, warm, vibrant, strong, lustrous: At the rajah's court the rich colours of the carpets and hangings dazzle the eye. 6 fat, fattening, heavy, creamy, succulent, savoury, mouth-watering, luscious, sapid, delicious: When Vicky complained that her sweet was too rich, Arthur ate hers, too. 7 mellow, mellifluous, resonant, sonorous, full: Edgar's rich basso filled the cavernous amphitheatre. 8 aromatic, ambrosial, savoury, fragrant, redolent, pungent, strong: The house was filled with the rich odour of freshly made coffee. 9 productive, plentiful, abundant, ample, bountiful, prolific, fruitful, fertile, fecund, copious, profitable, potent: The letters proved a rich source of intimate details about their private life. 10 laughable, funny, hilarious, comic(al), humorous, amusing, Colloq side-splitting: He had many rich anecdotes to relate about the practical jokes they used to play on one another. 11 ridiculous, preposterous, outlandish, ludicrous, absurd, nonsensical: One particularly rich episode involved a chimpanzee.
ride v. 1 sit on or in, travel or journey or go or proceed on or in, be borne or carried or conveyed (on or in), take; propel or control or drive (a horse or a bicycle or a motor cycle): They ride the bus to work each day. The film began with a witch riding a broomstick. Do you know how to ride a motor bike? 2 float, lie: The yacht is riding at anchor off Portsmouth. 3 tyrannize, terrorize, intimidate, dominate, oppress; bully, rag, harry, harass, hector, nag, provoke, heckle, badger, plague, pester, annoy, irritate, Colloq hassle: He has been ridden by obsessive ambition all his life. --n. 4 drive, journey, trip, excursion, tour, jaunt, outing, expedition, Colloq spin: Let's go for a ride in the country! 5 take for a ride. a delude, swindle, trick, deceive, defraud, humbug, defraud, gull, take in, cheat, bamboozle: Those tricksters with the loaded dice certainly took Charlie for a ride last night! b (kidnap and) murder or kill or execute or do in, Slang bump off, US (snatch and) rub out or waste: They said that if he identified them, they would take him for a ride.
right adj. 1 just, moral, good, proper, correct, legal, lawful, licit, honest, upright, righteous, virtuous, ethical, fair, true, honourable, right-minded, principled, open, above-board: There is no doubt in my mind that Simon can be relied on to do the right thing. 2 correct, fitting, suitable, proper, accurate, exact, precise, perfect; factual, truthful, veracious, valid, sound, Colloq Brit bang on, spot on: Have you bought the right kind of nail to go into plaster? Jennie had nine right answers out of ten. How many of yours are right? 3 propitious, convenient, strategic, advantageous, beneficial, favourable, auspicious, preferred, preferable, promising: It is critical for the mixture to reach the boiling point at exactly the right time. 4 sound, sane, normal, rational, lucid, healthy: Is she right in the head, letting him drive in his condition? 5 right-hand, dextral, dexter, Nautical starboard: In the United Kingdom, drivers sit on the right side. 6 rightist, right-wing, conservative, reactionary, Tory: The right wing of the liberal party is not so very different from the left wing of the conservatives. 7 face, upper, principal, front: Have you laid the tablecloth right side up? 8 utter, complete, perfect, unmitigated, unalloyed, out-and-out, thorough, thoroughgoing, 24-carat or esp. US 24-karat, dyed in the wool, pure, absolute, real, Brit proper: I've been a right idiot not to realize that he loved only her. --n. 9 privilege, prerogative, licence, power, claim, title, freedom, liberty: We must allow nothing to interfere with our democratic rights, such as our right to vote. 10 justice, reason, fact, truth, fairness, equity, good, goodness, integrity, virtue, virtuousness, honesty, honourableness, morality, propriety, rectitude, right-mindedness, high-mindedness, nobility, uprightness: He believes that he has right on his side. 11 right side or hand or fist, Nautical starboard: She stood on his right. She gave him a quick right to the jaw. 12 by rights. properly, fairly, justly, to be just, to be fair, in fairness, honestly, in all honesty, to be honest: By rights, because I paid for it, the house is mine. --adv. 13 directly, straight, straightaway, right away or off, in a beeline, as the crow flies, forthwith; unhesitatingly, immediately, promptly, at once, instantly, without hesitating or hesitation, without delay, quickly, swiftly, speedily, Colloq pronto, straight off: The minute he walked into the room, he went right to the wall-safe. Please come over right now. 14 exactly, precisely, unerringly, accurately; just: She hung the paintings right where they belonged. 15 just, only: I stopped right now - when you walked in. 16 well, satisfactorily, advantageously, profitably, favourably, opportunely: I hope that everything turns out right for you. 17 correctly, accurately, properly, precisely, well, sensibly, fittingly, suitably, aptly: If you can't do it right, why bother doing it at all! --v. 18 straighten (up or out), set upright or aright: I righted all the chairs the children had knocked over. 19 put or set or make right, put or set to rights, correct, straighten out, redress, amend, make up for, rectify, sort out, repair, fix: She has always felt that her mission in life was to right wrongs. 20 avenge, retaliate for, vindicate, repay, revenge, settle, Colloq get even for: Langdon swore that he would right the injury done to his father's name.
ring n. 1 loop, hoop, band, circle, ringlet, circlet, annulus, grommet, eyelet, quoit, noose, cincture, belt, girdle, cestus or cestos, border, halo, aureole, nimbus, corona, cuff, collar, necklace, neckband, bandeau, fillet, bracelet, armlet, torque or torc, crown, coronet, tiara, diadem, (laurel-)wreath, garland, Mechanics gland, bearing, US and Canadian bushing or Brit also bush, washer, O-ring, Nautical thimble, Architecture and heraldry annulet, Literary roundlet, Anatomy cingulum: The rings brought up from the wreck of the ancient Greek trading vessel are worth a great deal. 2 rink, enclosure, arena, circus, bullring, Spanish plaza de toros, boxing ring: I would no sooner get into the ring with him than with a bull! 3 circle, organization, gang, band, pack, cell, team, crew, confederacy, confederation, combination, cartel, mob, bloc, coterie, set, clan, clique, fraternity, brotherhood, sorority, sisterhood, guild, (secret) society, junta or junto, cabal, faction, group, league, alliance, federation, coalition, union, affiliation, camorra, camarilla, Bund: She was running an international ring of jewel thieves who worked only in the most exclusive resorts. --v. 4 encircle, surround, bind, gird, girt, circle; loop, compass, envelop, encompass, embrace: The swimming-pool is ringed with dense shrubbery. After the vase is fired, I intend to ring the base with a gold band.
rip-off n. 1 stealing, purloining, robbing, pilfering, taking, filching, pilferage, theft, robbery, larceny; shoplifting, Colloq pinching, Brit nicking, Slang lifting, swiping, US boosting: The rip-off of books from the library is a disgrace. 2 swindle, confidence trick, swindling, cheating, cheat, fraud, deception, defrauding, defalcation; embezzlement, Colloq con (job or trick): A husband-and-wife team are being sought for executing a rip-off of thousands from the Outland Bank using a forged letter of credit. 3 overcharging, exploitation, Colloq highway or chiefly Brit daylight robbery: It's a rip-off to charge two pounds for something that costs only three pence to make.
ritual adj. 1 ceremonial, ceremonious, sacramental: The celebrants undergo ritual washing before preparing the sacrifice. 2 procedural, formal, conventional, customary, habitual, routine, prescribed, usual, automatic, perfunctory: Each time they meet, Harold and Bill have to go through a ritual handshaking routine - a hangover from their school-days, I think. --n. 3 formality, routine, custom, practice, convention, protocol: If everyone goes through this tea-drinking ritual twice a day, how do you get any work done? 4 See rite, above.
robber n. thief, pickpocket, shoplifter, burglar, bandit, housebreaker, sneak-thief, cat burglar, safe-breaker, highwayman, gentleman of the road, brigand, pirate, freebooter, buccaneer, privateer, corsair, Colloq mugger, hold-up man, Slang cracksman, rip-off artist, safe-cracker, safe-blower, Chiefly US stick-up man, US second-story or second-storey man: The police were making every effort to catch the robbers.
rocky adj. unstable, tottering, teetering, unsteady, shaky, rickety, unsure, uncertain, unreliable, weak, flimsy, wobbly, wobbling, vacillating, dubious, doubtful, questionable, Colloq iffy: The project will be very rocky till we are assured proper funding.
room n. 1 space, area, scope, extent, allowance, latitude, elbow-room, range, leeway, margin: There is room for one more inside. 2 chamber, apartment, compartment, office, cell, cubicle: For years Pablo occupied a small room on the top floor. 3 rooms. quarters, lodgings, accommodation, flat, dwelling: We had rooms in an old house downtown. --v. 4 live, lodge, dwell, abide, reside, stay: Did you really room with the daughter of a prime minister?
rostrum n. platform, stage, dais, podium, stand; pulpit; lectern, reading-stand: As the crowd hooted and booed, the speaker descended from the rostrum.
rough adj. 1 uneven, irregular, coarse, jagged, rugged, bumpy, lumpy, broken: The next mile or so we slogged over some very rough terrain. 2 agitated, turbulent, choppy, stormy, storm-tossed, tempestuous, roiled: We negotiated a very rough patch of water before sailing into the calm, sheltered bay. 3 brusque, bluff, curt, short, abrupt, unpleasant, churlish, discourteous, impolite, rough-spoken, ungracious, surly, disrespectful, rude, uncouth, loutish, unrefined, uncivil, uncivilized, uncultured, vulgar, unladylike, ungentlemanly, coarse, ill-mannered, ill-bred, inconsiderate: Ian can be a bit rough, I know, but underneath he is a true and loyal friend. 4 tough, rough-and-tumble, roughneck, rowdy: There are some very rough characters frequenting that pub. 5 harsh, violent, unfeeling, unjust, severe, cruel, tough, hard, brutal, extreme; ungentle: They were subjected to very rough treatment when being questioned by the police. 6 dirty, obscene, smutty, pornographic, vulgar, crude, raw, rude: After midnight they watch the rough shows beamed by satellite from Italy. 7 hard, tough, Spartan, difficult, arduous, laborious, rugged, unpleasant: It was pretty rough going with almost no money and all those expenses. 8 harsh, grating, cacophonous, discordant, jarring, strident, raucous, rasping, unmusical, inharmonious, gruff, husky: In acknowledgement he made a rough, growling noise. 9 unfinished, incomplete, uncompleted, imperfect, rudimentary, crude, rude, formless, unformed, raw, rough-and-ready, rough-hewn, roughcast, undeveloped, unshaped, unworked, unwrought, unprocessed, unrefined; uncut, unpolished; shapeless, unshaped, undressed: I only saw the sculpture in its rough state and cannot say how it looked when finished. The stones are rough, as they were when taken from the ground. 10 general, approximate, inexact, cursory, quick, hasty, sketchy, vague, hazy; foggy, Colloq ballpark: Can't you give me even a rough idea of how much you want for the house? 11 unfair, unjust, bad, tough; unlucky, unfortunate: We went through a spell of rough luck last year. This is a rough time for everyone. 12 See rotten, 5, above. --n. 13 rowdy, tough, hooligan, ruffian, thug, brawler, yahoo, Slang roughneck, Australian larrikin, US mug: Phil will get into trouble if he continues to associate with those roughs at the Lantern. 14 sketch, (rough) draft, mock-up, outline: Let me see roughs of the presentation before the meeting with the client. --v. 15 rough out or in. sketch, draft, mock-up, outline, mark out, trace, block out: Our escape plan was roughed out by Captain Gallagher. 16 rough up. beat (up), thrash, attack, batter, assault, pummel or pommel, lay on, knock about, belabour, lambaste, Colloq wallop: Some of the boys roughed him up a bit when they learned that he was an informer. --adv. 17 violently, savagely, brutally, brutishly: You'd best not mention Cassie or Henry might cut up rough.
rout n. 1 defeat, trouncing, ruin, overthrow, subjugation, vanquishment, dbcle, conquest, thrashing, drubbing, beating; dispersal, retreat, collapse; Colloq licking, hiding, US and Canadian shellacking: Owing to the government's overwhelming forces, there was a complete rout of the rebels. --v. 2 defeat, win (out) over, trounce, ruin, overthrow, bring down, subjugate, subdue, suppress, vanquish, conquer, overwhelm, overpower, put to rout or flight, worst, best, trample, overrun, thrash, trim, whip, drub, beat, crush, batter, smash, shatter, cut to pieces or ribbons or shreds, destroy, devastate, wipe out, eliminate, put down, seal the doom or the fate of, eradicate, obliterate, Colloq lick, wipe the floor with, polish off, knock off, Hyperbolic sports jargon pulverize, make mincemeat of, ride roughshod over, demolish, mangle, ravage, mutilate, flatten, squash, topple, lay waste, wreak havoc (up)on, ravage, massacre, murder, exterminate, annihilate, liquidate, smother, stifle, do away with, Slang clobber, do in, US skunk, Chiefly US and Canadian cream: Queens Park Rangers routed Manchester United 6-0.
royal adj. 1 queenly, kingly, queenlike, kinglike, regal, imperial, sovereign, princely, majestic: The Royal Family usually spend their summer holidays at Balmoral. The establishment proudly boasts royal patronage. 2 grand, splendid, stately, impressive, august, imposing, superior, superb, magnificent, majestic: She arrived at the ball in a royal coach drawn by six white horses. --n. 3 king, queen, prince, princess, duke, earl, duchess, viscount, viscountess, baron, baroness, noble, nobleman, noblewoman, peer: Her greatest ambition is to meet a royal in the flesh. 4 royals. royalty, nobility, nobles, peerage: He writes the daily column reporting on the activities of the royals.
rugged adj. 1 rough, uneven, broken, stony, rocky, irregular, bumpy, pitted, jagged, ragged: The horses picked their way slowly across the rugged terrain. 2 tough, rough, severe, hard, harsh, difficult, arduous, Spartan, rigorous, onerous, stern, demanding, burdensome: It is amazing how that small band of pioneers withstood the rugged life in the untamed West. 3 hardy, durable, strong, sturdy, hale, robust, tough, vigorous, hard, rough-and-ready, stalwart; independent, individualistic, self-reliant, self-confident, self-sufficient, bold: WANTED: Five rugged pioneering types to join an expedition to the source of the Amazon river. 4 rude, uncouth, uncultured, uncivilized, unrefined, unpolished, crude, ungraceful, churlish: I admit that Charlie's manners are a bit rugged, but he's one of the best men we have.
run v. 1 sprint, race, scamper, scurry, scud, dart, bolt, dash, flit, tear (along), scoot, scuttle, zip, whiz or whizz, gallop, jog, trot, lope; rush, hurry (up), hasten, scramble, hustle, step lively, hop (to) it, step on it, put on some speed, Archaic hie, Colloq get a move on, hoof it, leg it, hotfoot (it), stir one's stumps, Brit hare, US step on the gas, hump (it), Slang get cracking, US get the lead out (of one's pants or taboo ass), Chiefly US get a wiggle on: If you run, you might catch her before she gets on the train. 2 run away or off, flee, escape, take flight, take to one's heels, bolt, decamp, make off, clear out, show a clean pair of heels, abscond, cut and run, (beat a (hasty)) retreat, retire, make a getaway, (make a) run for it, Colloq beat it, scram, skedaddle, take off, skip (out), take French leave, fly the coop, Slang head for the hills, Brit scarper, do a bunk, US and Canadian take a (run-out) powder, lam out of (somewhere), take it or go on the lam, US vamoose: The minute the enemy appeared, the entire troop ran. Cavendish ran, hoping the police wouldn't catch him. 3 go, cover, pass over, sprint, race: He ran the mile in just under four minutes. 4 wander, rove, roam, meander, drift: Some farmers allow their animals to run free, rather than penning them up. 5 Often, run for. compete (for), be a candidate (for), vie, struggle, contend, fight (for), stand (for): As she has already said she would not stand again, I doubt that she will run for re-election in the council elections. 6 pass, flow, pour, stream, flood, gush, spill, dribble, spurt, issue, move, trickle, seep, discharge, cascade, spout: You can see where the rainwater has run down this crack in the roof and into the room below. 7 flow, diffuse: The colour ran when he washed his red underwear with some white shirts in very hot water. 8 melt, liquefy, dissolve, fuse: It was so hot that the icing on top of the cake began to melt and run down the sides. 9 keep, maintain, support, sustain, manage: It is very expensive to run a large house. 10 operate, manage, direct, supervise, oversee, conduct, superintend, control, handle, manipulate, head, carry on, lead, regulate, take care of, look after, administer, be in charge of, coordinate: She must be a terrifically high achiever to run a huge international conglomerate like that! 11 operate, perform, function, work, tick, go: Even after all that abuse, the watch kept running and kept good time. 12 extend, stretch, reach; amount, add up, total up, come (up): The balance of payments deficit is running to twice last year's figure. His bill at the restaurant last night ran to more than 200. 13 convey, transport, give (someone) a lift, drive, take, bring: Tom said he would run me home in his new car. 14 bootleg, smuggle, deal or traffic in, Chiefly US and Canadian rustle: During Prohibition, his father ran whisky from Canada to the US. 15 be in effect or force, be effective, have force or effect: This lease has another year to run. 16 incur, invite, encourage, attract, be subjected to: Aren't you running a risk asking Sheila to handle your money? 17 propel, drive; steer, guide, navigate: If you are inept enough to run a boat aground, at least have the sense to do it at low tide. 18 unravel, come undone, Chiefly Brit ladder: My stocking ran just before I had to leave for the dance! 19 Sometimes, run off. print, offset, lithograph, reproduce, publish, display; imprint, position, place, locate, lay out: They are going to run his story in the next issue of The Londoner! We'll run the photographs of the fire alongside the article on page one. 20 run across. meet (up with), run into, come across, find, stumble on or upon, hit or chance or happen upon, Colloq bump into: Guess whom I ran across at Harrods yesterday. 21 run after. chase, pursue, go after, court, woo, Colloq set one's cap for: The City is filled with young men and women running after big money. Mick is running after this girl half his age, and he hasn't a clue that she's leading him on. 22 run along. go away, leave, Slang get lost: Sue wanted to get rid of Wayne and told him to run along. 23 run around. philander, be unfaithful, gallivant, Colloq sleep around, play the field: How does she cope with his constant running around? 24 run around with. associate with, spend time with, dally with, consort with: Cynthia is running around with a bad crowd these days. 25 run away. See 2, above. 26 run down. a trace, track, hunt, stalk, follow, pursue, dog, shadow; find, locate, track down, discover: We ran down the suspect in an abandoned barn in Little Fakenham. b criticize, decry, defame, vilify, disparage, deprecate, depreciate, denigrate, Colloq knock, pan: If you keep running him down like that he'll develop an inferiority complex before he's seven. c weaken, tire, expire, play (itself) out, burn out, run out, fail, Colloq peter out: Once the batteries have run down, we will no longer be able to transmit a distress-signal. d strike, hit, smash or crash or slam into, run over, knock over or down, collide with: On the way home, he almost ran down a boy on a bicycle. 27 run in. arrest, take into custody, jail, apprehend, take or bring in, Colloq pinch, nab, pull in, bust, collar, Brit nick: This is the third time this week that Minette has been run in for soliciting. 28 run into. See 20, above. 29 run off. a See 2, above. b duplicate, print, copy, turn out, produce, make, manufacture, generate, Colloq do, churn out: How quickly can you run off 1000 copies of this brochure? 30 run out. a be exhausted, expire, terminate, (come or draw to a) close, end, cease: The time for renewing your subscription has run out. b finish, go, be exhausted, be used up, Colloq peter out: The food had run out and we had no water when we were rescued. 31 run out of. use up, consume, eat up, exhaust, be out of: We've run out of milk - can you nip down to the shop and get some? 32 run out on. desert, abandon, leave high and dry, forsake, leave in the lurch, leave holding the baby: Despite all his promises, Edgar ran out on her when she became pregnant. 33 run over. a See 26 (d), above. b scan, run through, go over, look over, flip or leaf or thumb through, look at, skim (through), browse through, dip into, review: I promised Casey I would run over his article if I had the time. c overflow, spill (over), brim over, slosh over, pour over; extend, reach, spread over, stretch over; exceed, go beyond, overreach, overshoot, surpass, transcend: She accidentally let the bath run over, ruining the ceiling below. This article will run over onto the next page. McClelland always runs over the time allotted to his part of the proceedings. d rehearse, run through, repeat, practise, review, go over, study, learn, memorize: You'd best run over your speech again before the banquet. 34 run through. a pierce, stab, transfix, stick, spit: In the last scene, the hero runs the villain through with his sword before succumbing to his own wounds. b squander, consume, use up, waste, fritter away, exhaust, deplete, spend, dissipate, throw away, Slang blow: It didn't take Hugh more than a year to run through his inheritance. c See 33 (b), above. --n. 35 sprint, dash, race, jog, trot: They go for a two-mile run every morning before breakfast. 36 trip, journey, visit, drive, expedition, trek, outing, excursion, jaunt, junket, sojourn, Colloq spin, joyride: He has to make a run over to Paris for the weekend, supposedly on business. 37 route, routine, circuit, passage, trip, cycle, round; beat: I was on the Murmansk run during the war. 38 period, spate, interval, time, spell, stretch, course; engagement, booking, Colloq patch: Roger has had a run of bad luck and could use some help. The show had a long run on Broadway. 39 access, freedom, liberty: The children had the run of the house for a week while their parents were away. 40 return, satisfaction, reward, recompense, compensation, requital, expiation, atonement, repayment, remuneration: Although the odds are never in your favour, you get a good run for your money at Diamond Lil's Gambling Emporium. 41 series, sequence, stream, spate, string, succession, progression: Will attributed his poor showing at the tournament to a bad run of cards. 42 stream, brook, runnel, creek, rill, rivulet, Brit beck, Scots burn, US branch, kill: There is a small run at the bottom of the hill. 43 demand, call, request: Bouillon cubes seem to have enjoyed quite a run lately. 44 type, category, class, kind, sort: Mark seems to be a bit more refined than the usual run of guest at Lisa's parties. 45 trail, track, piste, path, slope; way, runway: She skied down the north run in record time. 46 enclosure, yard, pen, compound, runway; paddock; pound: There is a good-sized run at the kennel where we board the dogs when we go on holiday. 47 Music roulade, cadenza, arpeggio, riff: The soprano treated us to a marvellous run in which each note was distinct and pure. 48 in the long run. eventually, finally, after all, ultimately, in (due) time, in due course, in fine, in the end, at the end of the day, in the final analysis, all things considered, when all is said and done: Regardless of early troubles, things always seem to turn out all right in the long run in his plays. 49 on the run. a hastily, in haste, hurriedly, while under way, in a hurry, at speed, in a rush: It isn't supposed to be good for you to eat breakfast on the run every day. b on the loose, fleeing, escaping, running, in flight, running (away), Slang US on the lam: He was on the run from the police and desperate to find Duncan. c running, retreating, on the move or the go: They kept the enemy on the run for a week. 50 the runs. diarrhoea, dysentery, upset stomach, Jocular tummy rot, Delhi belly, Aztec hop, turista or tourista, Mexican foxtrot or two-step or toothache, Montezuma's revenge, curse of Montezuma, Rangoon runs, Tokyo trots, Lambeth run(s): I came down with the runs when we got to Ankara.
run-through n. 1 rehearsal, practice, trial, test: Let's have one more run-through before tomorrow's dress rehearsal. 2 See run-down, above.
ruthless adj. pitiless, unpitying, cruel, unsympathetic, merciless, unmerciful, harsh, fierce, remorseless, uncompassionate, vicious, savage, ferocious, hard-hearted, callous, unfeeling, tough, severe, heartless, inhuman, brutal, brutish, unrelenting, relentless, Chiefly US and Canadian mean: The jail houses some of the country's most ruthless criminals. In all of history there was no more ruthless a tyrant. sabotage n. 1 destruction, damage, wrecking, impairment: Enemy infiltrators were responsible for the sabotage of our radar. 2 subversion, treachery, treason: When the radar was found damaged, sabotage was suspected. --v. 3 undermine, subvert, disrupt, spoil, ruin, cripple; damage, incapacitate, disable, destroy, wreck, Colloq Brit throw a spanner in(to) the works, US throw a monkey wrench into the machinery, Slang Brit queer (someone's pitch): Only someone who had something to lose would have sabotaged our plan for reorganization. The engine had been sabotaged by pouring sand into the fuel tank.
sadden v. depress, deject, sorrow, dishearten, distress, dispirit, discourage, grieve, aggrieve: It saddens me to think of all the starving people.
sag v. 1 droop, sink, slump, bend, dip; swag, bag: The board sagged precariously under his weight. Without a breath stirring, the banners sagged in the humid air. 2 drop, decrease, decline, go or come down, fall, slide, slip, weaken, slump, descend, diminish, lessen, droop, subside, flag, falter, wilt: The value of the dollar sagged in world markets today. --n. 3 sagging, drop, droop, sinking, sinkage, subsidence, dip; reduction, decrease, decline, fall, slide, weakening, slump, lessening, flagging, faltering: If you stand over here you can see a definite sag in the roof. The sag in profits was attributed to a poor response to the new model.
salesperson n. salesman, saleswoman, saleslady, salesgirl, sales-clerk, clerk, Chiefly Brit shop-girl, Brit shop assistant, Old-fashioned counter-jumper: The shop is noted for its wide range of merchandise and the efficiency and courtesy of its salespeople.
sanatorium n. rest-home, convalescent home, nursing home, clinic, health farm, US also sanitarium: After spending a month recuperating in a Swiss sanatorium, Gladys was as good as new.
sang-froid n. cold-bloodedness, coolness, cool-headedness, indifference, composure, phlegm, self-possession, self-control, poise, imperturbability, equanimity, Colloq unflappability, cool, coolth: What amazed us was the remarkable sang-froid displayed by even the smallest children in the face of bullying.
sarcastic adj. scornful, contumelious, derisive, derisory, ridiculing, bitter, biting, cutting, trenchant, incisive, acrimonious, acerbic, acid, acidic, acidulous, harsh, acrid, aspersive, venomous, poisonous, virulent, spiteful, malicious, malefic, malevolent, satiric(al), ironic(al), cynical, disdainful, mocking, contemptuous, critical, censorious, captious, carping, cavilling, sardonic, scathing, caustic, nasty: I don't think he knows how hurtful his sarcastic remarks can be.
satirize v. lampoon, burlesque, parody, caricature, travesty, poke fun at, (hold up to) ridicule, make fun or sport of, pillory, deride, mock; mimic, imitate; Colloq take off, put down, Brit send up: Since ancient times writers have satirized the follies of their age.
savage adj. 1 wild, untamed, undomesticated, feral, unbroken: These savage beasts had never seen a man before. 2 vicious, ferocious, fierce, beastly, bestial, brutish, bloodthirsty, brutal, cruel, ruthless, pitiless, merciless, harsh, bloody, unmerciful, fell, barbarous, barbaric, murderous, demonic, demoniac, sadistic: The boy was subjected to a savage attack by the defendant's dog. The king's guards were selected for their savage nature. 3 wild, uncivilized, uncultivated, primitive, inhuman, bestial, barbaric, barbarous, untamed, rude: The savage behaviour of some New Guinea tribes included cannibalism. --n. 4 wild man or woman, brute, barbarian; Caliban: When the explorers landed on the island, they were welcomed by the savages who lived there.
saw n. proverb, maxim, (old) saying, aphorism, apophthegm or apothegm, axiom, adage, epigram, gnome; slogan, motto, catchword, catch-phrase, byword; dictum, platitude, truism, clich, commonplace: She always quoted to him the old saw, 'A fool and his mother are soon parted'.
scandal n. 1 shame, disgrace, embarrassment, sin, outrage: It is a scandal how much of the money raised for charity goes into the pockets of the fund-raisers. 2 discredit, damage, calumny, ignominy, obloquy, dishonour, degradation, disrepute, infamy: The scandal resulting from their being found together could never be lived down. The breath of scandal never touched her. 3 slander, libel, aspersion, innuendo, insinuation, abuse, dirt, defilement, defamation, slur, smear, taint, blemish, spot, stigma, smirch, black mark or spot, blot (on the escutcheon), (badge of) infamy, skeleton in the cupboard, Brit blot on one's copybook: His cowardice brought scandal to the name that could never be lived down.
scarcity n. lack, want, need, paucity, dearth, insufficiency, shortage, inadequacy, inadequateness: The teaching of foreign languages is not improved by the scarcity of qualified teachers.
scenario n. 1 (master or ground or floor) plan, (grand) scheme, plot, schema, design, outline, layout, framework, structure; sequence of events, routine: According to this scenario, the bank will provide the financing and we shall organize the take-over. 2 (plot) summary, prcis, rsum, synopsis; (working or shooting) script, screenplay: The scenario for the film was a joint venture between the director and the author of the book on which it was based.
schematic adj. 1 diagrammatic(al), representational, graphic, charted: We have the schematic drawings showing the placement of the equipment. --n. 2 diagram, blueprint, layout, (floor or game) plan, scheme, design, representation, graph, (flow or PERT) chart: Give copies of the schematics to the electricians so that they can plan where to put the wiring.
school n. 1 (educational) institution, kindergarten, nursery school, primary or grammar or secondary or high school, institute, college, university, seminary; Alma Mater; boarding-school, day-school; public school, private school, Brit State school; lyce; Lyceum, Brit first or middle school, US junior high school: His mother was very upset when he hinted that he might quit school. 2 set, coterie, circle, clique, group, denomination, faction, sect, followers, devotees, adherents, votaries, disciples; style, kind, form, manner, fashion: Burne-Jones belonged to the Pre-Raphaelite School of painters. 3 philosophy, principles, creed, set of beliefs, way of life, persuasion, credo, dogma, teaching, view, opinion, faction, approach: Regarding the creation of the universe, do you support the big-bang school or the steady-state school? --v. 4 teach, educate, drill, inculcate, instil, indoctrinate, instruct, tutor, train, discipline, coach, prepare, prime, equip, ready; mould, shape, form; school in, imbue with, infuse with: Young ladies were schooled in all the social graces.
scoff v. 1 devour, put away, gorge oneself on, wolf (down), bolt, stuff (oneself with), gobble (up or down), guzzle, gulp (down), Brit gollop: The two of them scoffed every crumb they could find. --n. 2 food, victuals, rations, edibles, provisions, Colloq grub, eats, chow, Slang Brit prog: In no time at all, they had cleared out every last bit of scoff in the larder.
scornful adj. contumelious, contemptuous, disdainful, deprecative, disparaging, derisory, derisive, snide, supercilious, mocking, sneering, scoffing, haughty, overweening, high-handed, superior, Colloq snooty, Slang snotty: The people were scornful of his attempt to reassure them, and continued to demand action.
scrap n. 1 fight, brawl, fracas, fray, affray, rumpus, scuffle, Donnybrook, battle (royal); row, dispute, argument, quarrel, disagreement, wrangle, squabble, tiff, spat, Colloq ruckus, set-to, dust-up: A terrible scrap broke out in the pub last and the police were called in. Our neighbours were having a scrap about who should take the dog for a walk. --v. 2 fight, brawl, spar, scuffle, battle, row, wrangle, argue, disagree, squabble, bicker: Let's not scrap over trifles - only important things.
screen n. 1 partition, (room) divider, paravent, wall: In their one-room flat a bookcase serves as a screen to separate the living area from the sleeping area. 2 shelter, protection, shield, cover: A row of poplars acts as a screen against the wind. 3 curtain, blind, shroud, cloak, cover; concealment, camouflage: The gauze fabric was too transparent to act as a screen. 4 sieve, mesh, strainer, filter, colander, riddle: The sand has to be shovelled through a screen to get rid of the stones. 5 motion pictures, movies, silver screen; television, small screen, home screen, Colloq box, telly, US boob tube: She is a star of both the big and small screens. --v. 6 partition (off), separate, divide, wall off: Why not use a beaded curtain to screen the kitchen area from the dining-room? 7 shelter, protect, shield, cover, guard, conceal, camouflage, mask, veil, hide: A decorative pierced wall screens the ladies of the harem from the prying eyes of visitors. 8 sift, separate (out), sort (out), filter, select, cull, process, interview, evaluate, grade, gauge, qualify, examine, scan, Chiefly Brit vet: The agency screens all candidates before sending them to see a client.
scruple n. 1 compunction, qualm, reluctance, misgiving, second thoughts, doubt, (twinge of) conscience, hesitation, uneasiness, discomfort, squeamishness: Peter hadn't the slightest scruple about taking the money from his aunt. --v. 2 pause, falter, hesitate, vacillate, have doubts or compunction (about), demur, waver, shrink from or at, have misgivings or qualms (about or over), be loath or loth (to), think twice (about), stick at, be reluctant, balk (at), have scruples (about): Susan didn't scruple for a moment about keeping the money she found in the street.
scurvy adj. low, miserable, contemptible, vile, base, despicable, rotten, sorry, bad, ignoble, dishonourable, mean, worthless, shabby: Robbing poor old ladies is a pretty scurvy activity.
searchingly adv. penetratingly, piercingly, intently, deeply, fixedly, concentratedly, eagerly: She looked searchingly into my eyes for some glimmer of hope.
secluded adj. 1 private, separate, isolated, lonely, cloistered, sequestered, detached, solitary, retired, eremitic, monastic: He lives a very secluded life on an island in the Outer Hebrides. 2 off the beaten track, out-of-the-way, remote, far-away, far-off, separate, segregated, private: He chose a secluded island in the Outer Hebrides for his vacation.
secrete v. hide, conceal, cache, bury, cloak, shroud, enshroud, camouflage, mask, disguise, Slang stash away: They secreted the haul from the robbery in the cellar of a house in Balham.
secular adj. worldly, terrestrial, mundane, temporal, material, lay, laic or laical, non-clerical, non-ecclesiastic(al), non-spiritual, non-religious, civil, state: Once he had taken his vows, he put aside secular matters.
seditious adj. rebellious, mutinous, revolutionary, insurgent, inflammatory, rabble-rousing, insurrectionist, insurrectionary, refractory, subversive, treacherous, dissident, disloyal, turncoat, unfaithful: One seditious action on the part of the colonists was to dump tea into the harbour at Boston, Massachusetts.
seeing conjunction. in view of (the fact that), whereas, in (the) light of, inasmuch as, since, considering: Seeing that you are here, you might as well tell her yourself.
see-through adj. sheer, diaphanous, gauzy, transparent, translucent, gossamer, filmy, peekaboo: She was wearing a see-through neglige when she appeared at the door.
selection n. 1 choice, pick, preference, option: Please make your selection from the merchandise in this display. 2 assortment, variety, collection, range, batch, number, set, series, group: Tonight I shall play for you a selection of jazz recordings made at the Savoy. 3 selecting, choosing, picking, singling out, electing, settling on, voting for, opting for, choice, pick, election: Selection has been delayed till tomorrow. 4 extract, quotation, excerpt, abstract, passage, piece, quote: I shall read you a selection from Blake's Songs of Innocence and Experience .
self-denial n. 1 self-sacrifice,self-abnegation, renunciation, selflessness, altruism, unselfishness, magnanimity: His contributions must have been made at the cost of some self-denial. 2 hardship, suffering, self-mortification, asceticism, privation, renunciation, renouncing, abstemiousness, abstinence, abstention, self-deprivation, keeping away from, refusal, refusing, giving up, desisting, Colloq swearing off: As far as certain foods are concerned, a little self-denial is good for one's health. 3 See self-control, 1, above.
self-made adj. independent, self-reliant, entrepreneurial, self-sufficient: She is a self-made woman and has accomplished it all without anyone else's help.
seller n. dealer, vendor, merchant, retailer, shopkeeper, salesperson, salesman, saleswoman, saleslady, sales agent, representative, traveller, travelling salesman, peddler, hawker, colporteur, sutler, chandler, Old-fashioned counter-jumper, Brit shop assistant, -monger (as in costermonger, ironmonger, fishmonger, etc.), US and Canadian sales-clerk, clerk, shop-girl, Colloq rep, US drummer: Time ran out on his job as a seller of water-clocks and hourglasses.
senior citizen n. elderly person, retired person, pensioner, Brit OAP (='old-age pensioner'), grey panther, Chiefly US retiree, golden-ager: Special tax provisions have been made for senior citizens.
sensitivity n. 1 sensitiveness, delicacy, touchiness, over-sensitivity, hypersensitivity, supersensitivity; soreness, irritability: The sensitivity of teenagers to criticism is well known to teachers and parents. She complained of sensitivity and pain in the pelvic region. 2 compassion, concern, sympathy, tenderness, tender-heartedness, kind-heartedness, kindliness, warmth, feeling: The nurses exhibit a genuine sensitivity for the problems of the handicapped. 3 awareness, consciousness, acuteness, perception, understanding, intuition, feeling, sense, sensitivity, sensitiveness, receptivity or receptiveness, receptibility, appreciation, appreciativeness, susceptibility, susceptivity or susceptiveness: Harvey has a keen sensitivity for the feelings of others. Sometimes I think the duke lacks the sensitivity needed to sympathize with the needy.
sentinel n. sentry, guard, watchman, watch, picket, lookout, patrol: The sentinels measured out the ramparts of the fortress with their regular paces.
sequential adj. successive, ordered, orderly, serial, progressive, organized, systematic, cyclic, continuous: Would you please put these periodicals into sequential order?
serrated adj. sawlike, saw-shaped, sawtoothed, toothed, notched, zigzag, jagged, serrate, serriform, serratiform, serrulate(d), crenellated, crenulate, crenate, denticulate: A knife with a serrated edge would cut the meat more easily.
servitude n. bondage, slavery, thraldom, serfdom, subjugation, enslavement, subjection, vassalage: They were sentenced to ten years' penal servitude.
set-up n. 1 arrangement, system, organization, layout, regime, structure, make-up, composition, framework, frame, construction; conditions, circumstances: This set-up of interlocking directorships makes it difficult to see who answers to whom and who owns what. What, exactly, is the set-up between you and Eustace? 2 prearrangement, trap, Slang put-up job: As soon as I saw the police car, I knew we had walked into a set-up.
sexual adj. 1 sex, reproductive, genital, procreative or procreant, sex, progenitive, propagative: Their current project is an investigation of sexual behaviour in young adults. 2 sensual, sensuous, erotic, carnal, fleshly, voluptuous, libidinous, earthy, bodily, physical, lustful, animal, Colloq sexy: They have a deep sexual attraction to one another.
shady adj. 1 See shadowy, 1, above. 2 indistinct, indefinite, questionable, doubtful, uncertain, unreliable, suspicious, suspect, dubious, shifty, disreputable; devious, tricky, slippery, underhand(ed), unethical, unscrupulous, dishonourable, dishonest, Colloq fishy, crooked, bent, not (strictly) kosher: The minister's shady past will be revealed in the next issue of Tribune . She got involved with some shady character who had just come out of prison.
shambles n. chaos, devastation, mess, disaster, Augean stables, pigsty, muddle, pigpen: I can't find anything in this shambles. The campaign degenerated into a complete shambles.
shapely adj. curvaceous, comely, well-proportioned, graceful, neat, well turned out, good-looking, pleasing; voluptuous, Colloq sexy: That slinky black dress certainly sets off her shapely figure to advantage.
shed n. lean-to, shelter, structure, addition, penthouse, hut, shack, stall, booth, pen, cote, hutch: The tools are in the shed alongside the barn. shed v. 1 spill: Much blood has been shed in the name of freedom. 2 shine, spread, scatter, throw, cast, let fall, impart, release, focus, pour forth, let fall, radiate: Can you shed a little light on a matter that has puzzled me for years? 3 pour or stream or flow or surge or spill (out or forth), discharge, emanate, emit, drop; exude, ooze, weep: The clouds shed their snow and the world below turned white. Don't shed any tears over me. 4 cast off, doff, drop, abandon; moult, defoliate, desquamate, peel (off), flake (off): The trees shed their leaves. She rushed into the bathroom, shedding her clothes as she went.
shepherd v. lead, convoy, escort, conduct, guide, usher, take, pursue: I want you, personally, to shepherd Miss Jones through the plant. As this project requires special care, I shall shepherd it through personally.
shine v. 1 gleam, glow, shimmer, radiate, beam, glare, flare, glisten, glitter, coruscate, twinkle, sparkle, scintillate, glint, flash, flicker: The light of a candle shone from her window. The stars are shining brightly. I want that brass polished till it shines. 2 polish, burnish, rub (up or down), buff, brush, brighten: You'd best shine your shoes before going for the job interview. 3 excel, surpass, stand out, outshine, be outstanding or pre-eminent or excellent or prominent or conspicuous: She had shone at tennis from a very early age, and first entered Wimbledon when she was twelve. --n. 4 gleam, glow, shimmer, sparkle, brightness, radiance, gloss, lustre, sheen, glaze, patina: That shine was achieved with a little wax and elbow-grease. 5 take a shine to. like, be attracted to, take a fancy to, fancy: Her Great Dane has taken a shine to me and likes to sit on my lap.
shocking adj. 1 surprising, astounding, astonishing, amazing, striking, stupefying, numbing, sudden, unexpected, electrifying, startling, Colloq mind-boggling, mind-blowing: It was shocking to see the way the neighbourhood had deteriorated. 2 disgusting, revolting, nauseating, nauseous, sickening, repulsive, abominable, hideous, horrible, horrifying, horrific, horrid, foul, loathsome, abhorrent, ghastly, hideous, unspeakable, dreadful, distressing, outrageous, appalling, monstrous, scandalous: The conditions in the concentration camps were shocking.
shorten v. 1 cut, curtail, cut off or down or short, reduce, diminish, trim; lop off, dock, prune; hem: Please shorten the time you spend in the bathroom in the mornings. This skirt has already been shortened. 2 condense, abridge, abbreviate, digest, compress: Can one shorten the book without losing too much of the characterization?
shoulder n. 1 side, edge, verge, margin; breakdown lane: If you have a flat tyre, drive onto the hard shoulder and phone for help. 2 give (someone) the cold shoulder. rebuff, snub, ostracize, send (someone) to Coventry, cold-shoulder, put (someone) down, reject, exclude, freeze (someone) out, shun, avoid, Colloq cut (dead): After his court case, they gave Nicholas the cold shoulder at his club. 3 put (one's or the) shoulder to the wheel. make every effort, make an effort, strive, work hard, pitch in, apply oneself, roll up one's sleeves, set or get to work, Colloq knuckle down, buckle down: If we put our shoulders to the wheel, we ought to be able to get our candidate elected. 4 rub shoulders (with). associate (with), hobnob (with), socialize (with), consort (with), mix (with), fraternize (with), keep company (with): Once in a while, she condescends to come down and rub shoulders with the common people. 5 shoulder to shoulder. side by side, united, as one, cooperatively, jointly, arm in arm, hand in hand, in partnership: If we fight shoulder to shoulder, we can defeat this menace and regain our freedom. 6 straight from the shoulder. directly, straightforwardly, candidly, frankly, honestly, openly, unabashedly, unashamedly, unambiguously, unequivocally, plainly, bluntly, man to man, (with) no holds barred, outright, Colloq without beating about the bush, without pulling (any) punches: I want to tell you, straight from the shoulder, Willie, you're the best pal in the world. --v. 7 push, shove, jostle, hustle, thrust aside, elbow, force: She shouldered everyone aside roughly to fight her way to the bargain counter. 8 support, carry, bear, take upon oneself, take on, accept, assume: Are you ready to shoulder the responsibilities of caring for a family?
shred n. 1 scrap, fragment, bit, tatter, sliver, snippet, rag, remnant, chip, piece; atom, trace, whit, grain, jot or tittle, scintilla, trace, hint, suggestion, iota, speck: We found shreds from his shirt caught on the thorn-bushes. There isn't a shred of evidence to suggest that she killed him. --v. 2 fragment, tear (up), tatter, rip (up); destroy, demolish; throw away, dispose of, scrap, US trash: At the news of the break-in, he dashed to his office and shredded the incriminating evidence.
shrubbery n. shrubs, planting(s), hedge(s), hedging, hedgerow, thicket, underbrush, brake, bracken, undergrowth, coppice or copse: The fox lay low in the shrubbery till the dogs flushed him out.
sicken v. 1 fall ill, take sick, contract, be stricken by, come down with or catch something or a bug, fail, weaken: After he seemed to be recovering so well, he suddenly sickened and died. 2 make ill or sick, afflict, affect, disgust, nauseate, turn one's stomach, upset, appal, shock, repel, revolt, repulse, offend, make one's gorge rise; put out: The scene in the abattoir sickened me.
siege n. 1 blockade, encirclement, beleaguerment, besiegement: The siege of Troy lasted ten years. --v. 2 lay siege to, besiege, blockade, beleaguer, cordon off, encircle, box or pen or shut in, bottle up: They sieged the city and the inhabitants surrendered when they ran out of food and water.
signify v. 1 sign, signal, indicate, communicate, make known, convey, symbolize, betoken, represent, express, announce, declare, denote, say, mean, specify; connote, intimate, suggest, reveal, disclose, impart: She signified her agreement by a nod. What does the phrase 'pursuit of happiness' signify to you? 2 matter, count, be significant or important or consequential, be of significance or of importance or of consequence, carry weight, impress, stand out, deserve or merit consideration: It signifies little that they were found innocent of a crime we all believe they committed.
silver n. 1 silverware, sterling, (silver) plate; cutlery, US flatware; hollowware: Guests are coming so I'll have to polish the silver. 2 white, greyish, whitish-grey, greyish-white, grey: When your hair has turned to silver, I will love you just the same. --adj. 3 silvery, shiny, shining, polished, burnished, lustrous, pearly, nacreous, bright, gleaming, Literary or heraldry argent; white: The moon's silver crescent hung low in the sky. Her hair is more silver than grey. 4 silvery, silver-toned, silver-tongued, sweet, pretty, euphonious, melodious, mellifluous, mellifluent, dulcet, musical: The silver tones of the muezzin echoed in the streets, calling the faithful to prayer.
sin n. 1 trespass, transgression, offence, wrong, impiety, misdeed, profanation, desecration, iniquity, evil, devilry, sacrilege, crime, infraction, misdeed, dereliction, infringement, violation, misdemeanour, fault, foible, peccadillo: How many sins have been committed in the name of righteousness! It's a sin to tell a lie. The seven deadly sins are anger, covetousness, envy, gluttony, lust, pride, and sloth. 2 wickedness, sinfulness, vice, corruption, ungodliness, badness, evil, wrongfulness, iniquity, iniquitousness, immorality, depravity, impiety, irreverence, impiousness, sacrilege: His brother Edmund was conceived in sin, and sin ruled his entire life. --v. 3 transgress, offend, fall (from grace), lapse, go wrong, stray, go astray, err, Biblical or archaic trespass: Strictly speaking, we can sin only against God.
singe v. char, blacken, sear, scorch, burn: Unfortunately, I singed the tail of my shirt while ironing it.
sink v. 1 founder, submerge, go down, go under, plunge, descend, be engulfed: The ship was struck below the water-line and sank in minutes. 2 subside, cave in, collapse, subside, settle, drop, fall in, go down, slip away: The earth suddenly sank beneath our feet. 3 descend, go down, drop, fall, move down or downward(s), go down to or on: The parachute slowly sank to the ground. When he saw the statue move, he sank to his knees, terrified. 4 decline, weaken, worsen, degenerate, subside, deteriorate, flag, fail, diminish, die, expire; languish; Colloq go downhill: Grandfather, sinking fast, summoned the family to his bedside. 5 disappear, vanish, fade away, evaporate; set, go down, descend, drop: After a meteoric rise, many rock stars sink into oblivion. As the sun sank slowly in the west, we returned to our hotel to reminisce about our day at the pyramids. 6 settle, precipitate, descend, drop: After a few minutes, the sand sinks to the bottom. 7 bore, put down, drill, dig, excavate, drive: A special shaft will be sunk just for ventilating the mine. 8 submerge, immerse, plunge: He sank his hand deep into the mud and came up with a small box. 9 stoop, bend, get, go, lower or humble oneself: I never dreamt that he would sink so low as to beg in the streets. 10 invest, venture, risk, put: He sank his life's savings into his son's business, only to see it go bankrupt. 11 sink in. be understood, penetrate, register, make an impression on, get through to: How many times do I have to tell you in order for it to sink in? --n. 12 basin, wash-basin, wash-bowl, lavabo; Church font, stoup, piscina: The kitchen has a large double sink. 13 cesspool, cesspit, pit, hell-hole, den of iniquity, sink-hole, Colloq dive: We found him playing piano in some sink frequented by the worst element of society.
situate v. place in a position or situation or location, place, position, locate, set, spot, put, install or instal: Harwood is very well situated to learn what the high command is planning. The greenhouse should be situated on the south side of the house.
skin n. 1 epidermis, derma, integument, hide, pelt, fleece, fell: Her skin reddens in the sun. How many skins are needed to make a coat? 2 coat, film, coating, crust, incrustation, husk, peel, rind, outside, shell, pellicle, veneer, outer layer, lamina, overlay: The frame is first covered with a tough plastic skin to make it waterproof. --v. 3 flay, strip, decorticate, excoriate: I shall skin that boy alive if I catch him! 4 peel, hull, husk, shell: This machine skins the fruit automatically. 5 abrade, scrape, graze, bark: She skinned her knee on the edge of the coffee table.
slack adj. 1 remiss, careless, indolent, negligent, lax, lazy, idle, neglectful, delinquent, inattentive, otiose, dilatory, cunctatory, laggard, easygoing, slothful, sluggish, lethargic, shiftless, do-nothing, fainant, Colloq asleep at the switch or the wheel, asleep on the job: Production has fallen off because the workers are getting slack. 2 loose, flabby, flaccid, soft, limp, baggy, drooping, droopy, bagging, sagging, floppy: The flag hung down, slack in the still air. --v. 3 Often, slack or slacken off or up. a let go, let run, let loose, release, slacken, loose, loosen, relax, ease (out or off), let up (on): Slack off the stern line a bit. b slow (down or up), delay, reduce speed, tire, decline, decrease, diminish, moderate, abate, weaken: Barnes could not keep up his terrific pace and is beginning to slack off. Business has slackened off since Christmas. 4 neglect, shirk, Colloq Brit skive (off), US goof off, Chiefly military gold-brick, Taboo slang US fuck the dog: Don't let the foreman find you slacking. --n. 5 lull, pause, inactivity, cut-back, lessening, reduction, abatement, drop-off, downturn, diminution, decline, fall-off, decrease, dwindling: How do you compensate for the slack in sales of ski equipment during the summer? 6 room, looseness, slackness, play, give: There's too much slack in that mooring line.
slash v. 1 cut, gash, hack, score, slit, knife, lacerate; wound; scar: The guide slashed away at the undergrowth with his machete. 2 lash, whip, scourge, flog, beat, horsewhip, flail, flagellate, flay, lambaste, thrash, beat: In those days, a convicted felon was beaten and slashed in front of a crowd in the market-place. 3 cut, reduce, decrease, drop, mark down, trim, lower: Prices were slashed to clear out last season's styles. --n. 4 cut, gash, incision, slit, slice, gouge, rent, rip, score, laceration: There is a slash in each sleeve that reveals the colourful fabric underneath. 5 cut, reduction, decrease, mark-down: The department stores continued their price slashes to the end of January.
sleek adj. 1 smooth, slick, velvety, lustrous, shiny, shining, glossy, silky, silken: The seals' sleek fur glistened in the sunlight. 2 graceful, trim, streamlined: For her birthday Edmund gave her a sleek convertible. 3 suave, unctuous, slimy, fawning, oily, specious, hypocritical, Chiefly Brit smarmy: His explanations sounded plausible enough, but we soon found out what a sleek rogue he really was.
slick adj. 1 smooth, sleek, glossy, silky, silken, shiny, shining, glassy, slippery: His slick hair looked as if it had been greased. 2 smooth, urbane, suave, smooth-spoken, glib, smug, plausible; sycophantic, unctuous, Colloq smarmy: Thomas was a slick operator and managed to worm his way into a position of power. 3 smooth, clever, skilful, adroit, dexterous, professional, ingenious, imaginative, inventive, creative, Colloq neat: The performance was slick and well-rehearsed. 4 superficial, shallow, meretricious, specious, glib: They have made a lot of money publishing slick magazines for the yuppy market. --v. 5 Often, slick down. smooth, plaster down, grease, oil: He likes his hair slicked down to look like Valentino's.
slip v. 1 slide, skid, glide, slither: Waxing the runners helps the sleigh slip along more easily. 2 stumble, lose one's footing or balance, miss one's footing, trip; fall, tumble: Mother slipped on the ice but luckily didn't fall down. 3 Often, slip up. err, blunder, make a mistake, miscalculate, go wrong, botch (up), Slang screw up: He slipped up again by failing to give you your telephone messages. 4 let slip. reveal, divulge, blurt out, leak, let out, disclose, expose, Colloq come out with, blab: He accidentally let slip the news that you were back in town. 5 slip away or by. pass, elapse, vanish, go by: The hours just slipped away when I was with Irena. 6 slip away or off or out. escape, disappear, leave, vanish, steal, go or run away or off or out, break away, get away, give (someone) the slip; sneak away or off or out: After the speech, he slipped away before we could interview him. 7 slip in. enter, get in, sneak in; put in: A field mouse slipped in past the wire netting. I managed to slip in my suggestion before the meeting was adjourned. --n. 8 blunder, error, mistake, fault, oversight, slip of the tongue or pen, inadvertence, indiscretion, impropriety, transgression, peccadillo, faux pas, Colloq slip-up, Chiefly US blooper, Slang Brit boob, bloomer: She made so many slips in the letter that she had to retype it.
slogan n. war cry, battle-cry, rallying cry, catchword, watchword; motto: The magazine's slogan was 'If you love words, you'll love Word '.
sludge n. muck, mire, ooze, mud, slime, dregs, silt, residue, precipitate, Colloq goo: The mechanic said that there was a lot of sludge in the engine.
smart adj. 1 intelligent, clever, bright, brilliant, quick-witted, sharp, acute, astute, capable, adept, apt, quick, ingenious: Emily is one of the smartest children in the class. 2 canny, perspicacious, perceptive, percipient, discerning, knowledgeable, au fait, well-educated, well-read, erudite, learned, well-versed, aware, shrewd, streetwise, Slang hip, tuned in, US savvy: Brendan is smart enough to avoid trouble. 3 elegant, chic, fashionable, stylish, modish, la mode, well-groomed, trim, neat, dapper, spruce, soign(e), Colloq snappy, natty: You must admit that both Della and Paul are smart dressers. 4 pert, pointed, saucy, witty, nimble-witted, poignant, trenchant, effective: I wish he would stop making smart remarks when I am trying to explain something. 5 brisk, vigorous, animated, active, energetic, spirited, lively; quick, alert, jaunty, perky, breezy: The enemy launched a smart counter-attack at dawn. He set off down the road at a smart pace. 6 quick, swift, stiff, smarting, stinging, sharp, severe: The mugger gave him a smart blow on the back of the neck. --v. 7 sting, hurt, pinch, pain, ache, tingle, prickle, burn, throb, stab, pierce: The antiseptic may smart a bit when it is put on the cut. The smoky atmosphere made her eyes smart. --n. 8 injury, harm, pain, pang, twinge, affliction, suffering, smarting: For years he silently endured the smart of his colleagues' ridicule.
smoulder v. burn; seethe, simmer, chafe, rage, fume, foam, boil, stew, fester, Colloq get hot under the collar, get (all) steamed up, see red, US do a slow burn, get (all) burnt up: The fire continued to smoulder, then flared up again a week later. He has been smouldering ever since his wife confessed she was going out with another man.
snarl v. 1 growl; snap: I admit I found three snarling Dobermans a bit off-putting. The clerk snarled at me when I asked for a form. --n. 2 growl: With a snarl the dog leapt at his throat.
sniff n. 1 whiff, breath, odour, scent: I got a sniff of her perfume as she walked by. 2 hint, spirit, feeling, suggestion: There is the sniff of spring in the air. --v. 3 smell, snuffle, snuff: Why is your dog always sniffing at my shoes? 4 sniff (at). See sneer, 2, above.
snuggle v. cuddle, snug down, nestle, nuzzle: The puppies snuggled up close to their mother for warmth and protection.
sociable adj. friendly, affable, approachable, social, gregarious, outgoing, extrovert(ed) or extravert(ed), companionable, accessible, amiable, amicable, genial, congenial, convivial, warm, cordial, neighbourly, hail-fellow-well-met, Colloq chummy, cosy: The people in this area are quite sociable, and we get together often.
soil n. earth, loam, dirt, ground, turf, humus; clay: The men who dug the swimming-pool took away the soil from the pit.
solicit v. 1 entreat, beseech, ask (for), implore, petition, importune, appeal for or to, call on or upon, beg, supplicate, pray, crave: He has solicited my help on more than one occasion. 2 accost, approach, entice, lure, pander to, Slang hustle: You can't go out in that neighbourhood without being solicited.
solitude n. 1 solitariness, aloneness, isolation, seclusion, privacy: Peter enjoys the solitude of living on an island. 2 loneliness, remoteness; emptiness, wilderness: How long could one person survive in the solitude of interstellar space?
sometime adj. 1 former, erstwhile, past, recent, one-time, quondam: Crawford was a sometime student of the occult. --adv. 2 at some time or other, someday, one day, any time, on a future occasion, when or if the opportunity arises, soon, by and by, one of these days: Come up and see me sometime. 3 sooner or later, in (due) time, in the fullness of time, in the long run, one fine day, Un bel di, eventually, when all is said and done, before long, before you know it: You can be sure that the tax man will find out about it sometime.
sophistication n. 1 worldliness, urbanity, culture, refinement, knowledge, knowledgeability, cosmopolitanism, polish, elegance, poise, suavity or suavit, savoir faire, savoir vivre, finesse, discrimination, discernment, awareness, taste, tastefulness, style: They want him on the board of directors of the museum because he lends it sophistication. 2 complexity, intricacy, subtlety, refinement: There is a staggering amount of sophistication built into modern integrated circuits.
sort n. 1 kind, variety, type, class, classification, group, category, brand, make, mark, stamp, description, mould, stripe, ilk, feather, kidney, character, nature; manner, species: A 1928 Alfa-Romeo coup is not exactly the right sort of car for a family. Lewis is a person of a different sort. What sort of person is he? 2 kind, type, manner: This sort of behaviour must stop. 3 species, genus, family, phylum, subgenus, subspecies, race, breed, strain, stock, kind, variety, type: Aberdeen Angus is a better sort of beef for steaks. 4 person, individual, lot; thing: He is not really such a bad sort. 5 of sorts. of a sort, of a mediocre or passable or admissible or not (too) bad or fair or sufficiently good or adequate or undistinguished or indifferent kind or quality or proficiency: Yes, one might say that he is a violinist of sorts. 6 out of sorts. not oneself, not up to snuff, unwell, ailing, indisposed, (slightly) ill, low, Colloq off one's feed, under the weather: He is out of sorts after last night's revelries. 7 sort of. See somewhat, above. --v. 8 assort, classify, file, order, rank, grade, class, categorize, separate, divide, combine, merge, arrange, organize, systemize, systematize, catalogue, group, sort out: Sort these names into alphabetical order. 9 describe, characterize, categorize, cast, throw, combine, mould, type: I did not enjoy being sorted together with thieves and murderers. 10 sort out. a organize, set or put straight, straighten out, resolve, tidy (up), clarify, clear up, solve; decide: Someone will have to sort out how we are to proceed. b choose, select, separate, divide: Sort out all the books that you want to keep from those to be donated to the library.
sour adj. 1 acid, acidic, tart, vinegary, lemony, acidulous or acidulent, acidulated, acescent, acerbic: This apple has a pleasant, slightly sour taste. Do you like sour dill pickles? 2 turned, bad, (gone) off, fermented, curdled, rancid, spoilt or spoiled: If the food is sour, throw it away. 3 disagreeable, unpleasant, distasteful, bad, nasty, bitter, terrible: The poor service and facilities made the entire holiday a very sour experience. 4 acrimonious, bitter, embittered, unpleasant, churlish, ill-natured, ill-tempered, bad-tempered, crusty, curmudgeonly, crabbed, crabby, grouchy, cross, cranky, testy, petulant, impatient, abrupt, nasty, curt, caustic, brusque, peevish, snappish, edgy, sullen, morose, gloomy, discontented: The waitress's sour expression matched her sour disposition. --v. 5 turn, spoil, curdle, go bad or off, ferment: Milk sours quickly in this climate if you don't refrigerate it. 6 embitter, acerbate, disenchant, exasperate, vex, Colloq peeve: Being forced to practise for hours when a child was what soured my enjoyment of playing the piano.
spank v. slap, smack, put or take over one's knee, thrash, paddle; chastise, punish, castigate; Colloq wallop, tan (someone's) hide, paddywhack, whack, give (someone) a (good) licking or hiding: In those days when you misbehaved you were spanked.
sparse adj. 1 thin (on the ground), few (and far between), meagre, scanty, (widely) dispersed or scattered, spread out, spotty, in short supply, scarce: Tourists are sparse in Scotland in January. Sparse blooms appeared on the rose-bushes this year. 2 little, limited, meagre, scant, sparing, inappreciable, not much, insignificant: Sparse use was made of the new tennis court because of the rain.
speaker n. orator, lecturer; keynoter; rabble-rouser, demagogue, Colloq tub-thumper, spieler: It was my function to introduce the speaker.
specify v. particularize, enumerate, itemize, name, denominate, list, indicate, mention, identify, cite, define, detail, stipulate, spell out, set out or forth, individualize, be specific about, delineate, determine, disambiguate, establish: You must specify the source of each quotation.
spectre n. 1 ghost, phantom, wraith, apparition, vision, spirit, shade, revenant, Doppelgnger, chimera, Colloq spook, bogeyman or bogyman: Each year the spectre appeared to her on Christmas Eve. 2 image, vision, (mental) picture: Again the horrible spectre of war and pestilence arose.
spell n. 1 period, interval, time, term, season; stint, turn, run, course, shift, tour (of duty), watch, round: We had a spell of bad weather. Each of us had a spell at the tiller during the crossing. --v. 2 relieve, replace, substitute for, take over for or from: After 36 hours of uninterrupted duty, I needed someone to spell me for a while.
sphere n. 1 globe, orb, globule, spherule; drop, droplet, bubble: Flotation is provided by thousands of hollow plastic spheres. 2 society, class, level, caste, rank, domain, walk of life, station, stratum, position: They did not belong to the same social sphere. 3 area, field, province, subject, discipline, range, speciality or US specialty, forte, Colloq bailiwick, territory, department, thing, bag: Are Gregorian chants within Stanley's sphere of interest?
spineless adj. 1 Technical invertebrate: There are more species of spineless creatures than those with internal backbones. 2 weak, feeble, flabby, irresolute, weak-willed, indecisive, ineffectual, ineffective, impotent, powerless: After her reign, any king would appear spineless. 3 cowardly, dastardly, pusillanimous, timorous, lily-livered, white-livered, craven, fearful, timid, spiritless, squeamish, Colloq yellow, chicken-hearted, chicken, yellow-bellied, wimpish: She said you were spineless because you refused to go into the lions' cage.
spiteful adj. rancorous, bitter, acrimonious, malevolent, malicious, venomous, hateful, invidious, hostile, antagonistic, unfriendly, unforgiving, retaliative or retaliatory, punitive, retributive or retributory: Cutting off Colin's allowance because he forgot your birthday was a spiteful thing to do.
spoilsport n. killjoy, damper, dog in the manger, Colloq wet blanket, US party pooper: Some spoilsport tipped off Jane about her surprise birthday party.
sporty adj. informal, casual; stylish, chic, smart, trendy, fashionable, modish, la mode, up to date, showy, rakish, Colloq swank(y), loud, Slang classy, swell, flashy, snazzy, sharp, US and Canadian spiffy: He came to dinner wearing sporty clothes. Yes, I suppose you might call Fred a sporty dresser.
spray n. flower or floral arrangement, nosegay, posy, bouquet, sprig, branch, bough: The scores of tiny roses were interspersed with sprays of baby's-breath.
spur n. 1 goad, prod, urging, impulse, incitement, instigation, prompting, pressure, stimulus, stimulation, incentive, provocation, inducement, encouragement, motive, motivation: The company paid the workers a bonus for each piece they completed as a spur to productivity. 2 projection, prong, spike, spine, gaff, barb, quill, tine, barbel, barbule, process: The hook has a spur that prevents the fish from disengaging. 3 on the spur of the moment. impetuously, impulsively, unthinkingly, unpremeditatedly, impromptu, on the spot; rashly, thoughtlessly, recklessly, hastily, brashly, incautiously, unexpectedly, suddenly: On the spur of the moment, we decided to fly to Cap d'Antibes for the weekend. --v. 4 goad, prod, urge, egg on, impel, incite, prompt, press, push, pressure or Brit pressurize, stimulate, drive, provoke, induce, encourage, motivate, excite, animate: The sales force are spurred on by the huge bonuses the company offers.
squeamish adj. 1 dainty, delicate, prudish, punctilious, demanding, critical, exacting, difficult, fussy, scrupulous, fastidious, meticulous, painstaking, finicky or finical, Colloq persnickety or pernickety, fuddy-duddy: The museum directors were too squeamish to put on an exhibition of nudes. 2 nauseous, qualmish, easily disgusted or revolted or nauseated: Sam was too squeamish to watch open-heart surgery on the TV.
stadium n. arena, ground, amphitheatre, hippodrome, coliseum or colosseum, circus: The new football stadium can accommodate 60,000 spectators.
stake n. 1 stick, post, spike, picket, paling, pale, pole, pike, stave; palisade, pole, upright, pillar, column: They tied the goat to a stake and hid, waiting for the tiger to catch the scent. 2 pull up stakes. move (house), resettle, move on, migrate, emigrate, leave, depart: It was time to pull up stakes and find a new camp-site. --v. 3 tether, tie (up), secure, fasten, picket, lash, leash, hitch, chain: The ponies were staked out in the pasture. 4 Usually, stake out. (a fence (in or off), confine, pen, enclose, close in or off, hem in, shut in, impound, enclose, cage, wall in: We hired a man to stake out a large enough area to keep the horses. b mark off or out, define, delimit, outline, demarcate, delineate, circumscribe: The pioneers had already staked out the land they planned to cultivate.
stalwart adj. 1 robust, stout, strong, mighty, powerful, rugged, staunch, hardy, sturdy, vigorous, lusty, indomitable, solid, able-bodied, brawny, sinewy, muscular, fit, healthy, hale, (hale and) hearty, Colloq husky, hefty, beefy: We shall need a dozen stalwart men to carry out the raid. 2 redoubtable, intrepid, undaunted, resolute, firm, determined, unbending, steadfast, tenacious, unswerving, unwavering, unfaltering, unflinching, uncompromising, unyielding, persevering, persistent, unflagging, relentless, tireless, untiring, indefatigable: Although they lost, their lawyers put up a stalwart defence. 3 brave, courageous, daring, intrepid, valiant, heroic, manly, manful, fearless, indomitable, stout-hearted, bold, audacious, game, red-blooded, plucky, mettlesome, lion-hearted, spirited: These stalwart knights met at dawn on the battlefield. --n. 4 supporter, upholder, sustainer, partisan, loyalist, (party) faithful, trouper, hero, heroine: And most of all I want to thank those stalwarts who have supported me throughout this victorious campaign.
standard n. 1 criterion, measure, benchmark, model, pattern, archetype, touchstone, yardstick, gauge, guide, guideline, paradigm, paragon, exemplar, example, sample, type, ideal, beau idal, rule, canon, law, requirement, precept, principle: The metric system has become the standard in many countries. People resent having imposed on them the standards of another culture. 2 mean, average, norm, par, level, rating: With many luxuries now necessities, the standard of living has improved enormously. The course was for students of intermediate standard. 3 flag, banner, ensign, emblem, pennant, burgee, insigne (singular of insignia), guidon, gonfalon or gonfanon, labarum: The black knight bore a curiously coloured standard into battle. 4 pole, post, stanchion, lamppost, column, pillar, support, pedestal, pier, footing, (upright) bar or rod or timber: The car went out of control and knocked down two lighting standards. --adj. 5 accepted, approved, definitive, defined, authoritative, official, required, regulative, regulatory, textbook: Must we follow standard procedure? The tests were conducted according to the standard methods. 6 recognized, prevailing, prevalent, usual, customary, habitual, orthodox, set, established, regular, familiar, ordinary, traditional, classic, stock, typical, normal, staple, conventional, universal: People in the south usually regard themselves as speakers of standard English.
staple adj. 1 basic, elementary, essential, necessary, requisite, required, vital, indispensable, critical, fundamental, primary, principal, main, chief: These people cannot afford even staple commodities like flour and salt. 2 standard, usual, habitual, ordinary, customary, prevailing, normal, conventional, universal: The staple fare on television seems to consist of old and new sitcoms. --n. 3 Often, staples. necessities, essentials, basics, fundamentals: Supermarkets disperse low-cost staples such as bread, tea, and milk to force shoppers to pass luxury items. Marital and financial problems are the staples of soap operas.
state n. 1 condition(s), circumstance(s), situation, state of affairs, status, shape, position: He was concerned about the state of the company's finances. 2 structure, form, constitution, shape, phase, stage: One does not see iodine in its gaseous state outside the laboratory. 3 grandeur, pomp, style, splendour, magnificence, glory, brilliance: The prince was met at the airport and escorted in state to the palace. 4 nation, country, land, body politic: No longer a colony, it became an independent state in 1952. --adj. 5 governmental, government, national, federal: The State schools in the town had a good reputation. 6 ceremonial, formal, dignified, stately, solemn, official; royal, regal, imperial, majestic: We attended a state dinner at the White House. The Queen travelled in the state coach from Buckingham Palace to Westminster. --v. 7 aver, assert, asseverate, declare, affirm, express, report, articulate, voice, specify, delineate, claim, maintain, allege, submit, confirm; say, testify, hold, have: He has often stated his firm belief in democracy. He stated firmly that he was not in the house on the night of the murder.
status n. 1 eminence, prominence, pre-eminence, standing, stature, importance, significance, repute, reputation, rank, station: Few could approach Keith's status as a pathologist. 2 See standing, 5, above.
stealth n. furtiveness, secrecy, clandestineness, surreptitiousness, sneakiness, slyness, underhandedness: What the thieves lacked in stealth they compensated for in knowledge of art.
stellar adj. 1 astral, star, sidereal: The sidereal year is based on stellar calculations. 2 chief, starring, principal, leading, main, headlining: For years Lee has been a stellar performer on the golf circuit.
sterilize v. 1 purify, disinfect, cleanse, clean, fumigate, depurate, Technical autoclave: Sterilize the instruments before using them. 2 castrate (males), emasculate (males), geld (horses), spay (female animals), alter (animals), neuter (animals), caponize (male fowl), eunuchize (males), Technical ovariectomize (females), vasectomize (males), Colloq fix (animals), cut (male animals), Slang tie (someone's) tubes: Steers - that is, sterilized bulls - yield tenderer meat.
stiff adj. 1 firm, rigid, inelastic, unbending, inflexible, hard, unbendable, tough, solid, solidified, stiffened, unyielding, brittle: The table napkins were so stiff with starch that I almost cracked one. 2 severe, harsh, punitive, hurtful, punishing, abusive, torturous, distressing, afflictive, painful, overwhelming, unbearable, tormenting, merciless, excruciating, cruel, drastic, US cruel and unusual: The government here has stiff penalties for drug traffickers. 3 strong, potent, powerful, overpowering, alcoholic: After that kind of an ordeal, you could use a stiff drink, I'm sure. 4 vigorous, energetic, staunch, dogged, tenacious, resolute, resolved, determined, stubborn, obstinate, unyielding, indomitable, relentless: They met with stiff opposition in trying to capture the fort. 5 strong, steady, powerful, fresh, brisk, spanking, gusty, forceful, howling: We had to reduce sail because of a stiff westerly wind. 6 excessive, exorbitant, high, steep, expensive, dear: They are asking a pretty stiff price these days for a bottle of good vintage port. 7 cool, haughty, rigid, wooden, stuffy, aloof, tense, intense, unrelaxed, forced, pompous, stilted, mannered, ceremonious, austere, formal, chilly, cold, unfriendly, standoffish, reserved, snobbish, Colloq snooty, Slang uptight: Vince is warm and friendly, but his wife is as stiff as a poker. 8 stilted, unrelaxed, wooden, forced, artificial, laboured, pedantic, turgid, formal, prim, Colloq stuffy: I have always found her writing to be rather stiff. 9 difficult, hard, steep, uphill, laborious, arduous, tiring, fatiguing, exhausting, harrowing, toilsome, rigorous, challenging, Colloq rough, tough: It is quite a stiff climb to the top of the pyramid of Cheops. That was a stiff homework assignment. 10 solid, semi-solid, firm, hard, thick, dense, compact: If you add a bit more water the next time, the jelly won't get quite so stiff. --n. 11 corpse, body, cadaver: Barry had to go down to the morgue to identify some stiff they hauled out of the river. 12 skinflint, miser, Colloq cheapskate, Slang piker, US and Canadian tightwad: A stiff is a customer who fails to leave a tip.
stimulating adj. exciting, inspirational, inspiring, arousing, stirring, animating, exhilarating, provocative, thought-provoking: I cannot recall having spent a more stimulating evening in the theatre.
stir v. 1 Often, stir up. agitate, shake (up), mix (up), scramble, amalgamate, mingle, commingle, intermingle, merge, blend, fold (in), churn (up), beat, whip (up): Stir all the ingredients together. 2 move, rise, arise, get up, bestir (oneself), be up and about, Colloq get a move on, get moving, get a wiggle on, shake a leg, look or step lively, look alive, stir one's stumps: It is about time you were up and stirring. 3 disturb, trouble, affect, upset, stimulate, activate: The play stirred the conscience of the king. Mention 'diet' to Roberta and you'll stir up a wasp's nest. 4 Often, stir up. motivate, encourage, stimulate, energize, galvanize, electrify, animate, excite, inspire, provoke, move, rouse, arouse, get, prompt, urge, incite, spur, prod, induce, persuade, convince: What will it take to stir the council to take action? The usual rabble-rousers were there, stirring up the crowd. 5 Often, stir up. awaken, rouse, (cause to) recall or call to mind, revive, resuscitate: Those photographs stir up so many old memories! --n. 6 bustle, activity, movement, stirring, action, commotion, flurry, confusion, tumult, ado, to-do, fuss, disturbance, excitement, hubbub, Colloq Brit kerfuffle: There was a stir at the door, which was flung wide to allow Kitty to sweep in. The news of her marriage caused quite a stir. 7 prison, jail or Brit also gaol, jail-house, clink, penitentiary, lock-up, Military Brit glasshouse, US brig, Slang chiefly Brit quod, US big house, pen, slammer, can, calaboose: He claims he's in stir for something he didn't do.
stolid adj. impassive, dull, doltish, obtuse, thick, dense, bovine, wooden, slow, lumpish, unemotional, clod-like, phlegmatic, lethargic, apathetic, indifferent, uninterested: He was a stolid character, very different from his dynamic younger brother.
storehouse n. warehouse, depository or depositary, repository, storeroom, bank, store, (In Asia) godown; arsenal, magazine, armoury: The company maintains storehouses in a dozen countries to better supply their customers.
straight adj. 1 direct, unbending, undeviating, uncurved, regular, linear: The tracks are straight for as far as the eye can see. 2 erect, vertical, upright, upstanding, perpendicular; plumb: Stop slouching and stand up straight. He stood straight as a ramrod. 3 even, square, true, right, flat, smooth, horizontal, level: Are you sure that the billiard table is straight? 4 honest, frank, straightforward, direct, forthright, legitimate, (fair and) square, fair, equitable, just, above-board, upright, respectable, decent, trustworthy, honourable, dependable, reliable, Colloq upfront: Sternway seems to be perfectly straight in his business dealings. 5 unequivocal, unambiguous, straightforward, candid, plain, simple, explicit, blunt, unembellished, unelaborated, unqualified, outright, accurate: The straight facts are given in this article. The police cannot get a straight story out of him as to his whereabouts last night. 6 direct, point-blank, straightforward, straight from the shoulder, candid, outright, plain, frank, no-nonsense: Do you mind answering a straight question? 7 shipshape, orderly, neat, tidy, in order, arranged, organized, sorted out, spruce, straightened out: I wish Leonard would put his room straight before the guests arrive. 8 sober, staid, sedate, serious, unsmiling, unemotional, impassive, emotionless, taciturn, composed, mask-like: It was impossible to keep a straight face during the school play. 9 undiluted, neat, unmixed, pure, unadulterated, uncut, unmodified, unaltered, unalloyed: He likes his whisky straight. 10 even, square, settled, straightened out, agreed: The account will be straight when Dick makes the last payment. 11 heterosexual, normal, Slang hetero: Till Evelyn came out of the closet, I thought he was straight. --adv. 12 directly, right, undeviatingly, unswervingly; as the crow flies, in a beeline: I should have known she would go straight to the police. 13 (straight) ahead: Go straight for a mile and you'll see it on the right. 14 Sometimes, straight out. directly, unequivocally, unambiguously, forthrightly, straightforwardly, point-blank, candidly, plainly, simply, in plain or simple English, explicitly, outright, honestly, accurately: Just give me the story straight, without beating about the bush. 15 Often, straight away or off. immediately, at once, without delay, instantly, summarily, directly, right (away or off), right off the bat, promptly, Colloq pdq (= 'pretty damned quick'): She went back to work straight after having the baby. I told him straight off to leave town. 16 straight up. without ice: I like my gin straight up.
strange adj. 1 odd, peculiar, bizarre, weird, curious, uncommon, unusual, rare, singular, exceptional, eccentric, weird, funny, quaint, fantastic, out of the ordinary, extraordinary, out-of-the-way, queer, outlandish, unheard-of, grotesque, abnormal, remarkable, surprising, inexplicable, unaccountable, uncanny, Colloq offbeat, far-out, Slang kinky, Brit rum, US kooky: I had a strange dream last night. 2 unfamiliar, unknown, unaccustomed: The children were warned not to get into strange cars. She was overwhelmed by the strange culture of her husband's country.
streamer n. pennant, banner, pennon, flag, bannerette or banneret, banderole or banderol or bannerol, gonfalon or gonfanon, jack, burgee: A long streamer fluttered from the mast.
strew v. scatter, bestrew, sprinkle, disperse, spread, toss, distribute; litter: Rubbish was strewn all over the floor.
string n. 1 line, cord, thread, twine, fibre, rope, cable, ligament, strand, filament: To fly a kite one needs the right weight of string. 2 leash, lead, leader: Why does he let her drag him around on the end of a string? 3 line, row, series, sequence, succession, chain, procession, stream, train, file, Chiefly Brit queue: A string of coincidences led to their meeting again after twenty years. 4 necklace, chain, loop, strand, dog-collar, choker, chaplet, wreath, rivire, Archaic carcanet: In her hair was a string of pearls. 5 pull strings or wires. use or exert influence, Colloq throw one's weight around: He had to pull strings to get his son a job on the paper. 6 pull the strings. be in control, control, run, operate, dominate, be in command, be in the driver's seat, hold the reins, manipulate: She is the one who pulls the strings when it comes to new investments. 7 strings. conditions, stipulations, provisos, qualifications, requirements, prerequisites, terms, obligations, limitations, provisions, musts, Colloq catches: I might have known that there would be strings attached to their offer of a free holiday in Corfu. --v. 8 thread, join: The children were busy stringing beads to make necklaces. 9 Often, string together or up. loop, festoon, link, drape, suspend, sling, hang, array, concatenate, chain together: At holiday time, coloured lights are strung round the town square. 10 string along. a follow, go along (with), agree, concur, collaborate: I said I would string along with the plan for the time being. b keep waiting or dangling, keep on a string, keep on tenterhooks, Colloq play fast and loose with (someone): She's just stringing you along till her boyfriend comes back. c fool, deceive, bluff, dupe, cheat, trick, hoax, Colloq take someone for a ride, put one or something over on (someone): They strung Harold along for months before they made off with his life savings. 11 string out. a stretch, reach, extend: The line of refugees strung out as far as one could see. b delay, postpone, drag out, protract, spin out: He strung out the repayment for as long as possible. 12 string up. hang, lynch: He knew that if the jury didn't convict him the townspeople would string him up.
stroke n. 1 blow, rap, tap, thump, knock, smack, whack, swipe, slam, strike, Colloq wallop: One stroke of the hammer and the nail went in. 2 action, motion, go, move, movement, feat, achievement: She won the leading role and defeated her shyness at one stroke. 3 flourish, movement, gesture; mark, dash, Colloq splash: With a stroke of the pen the man's fate was sealed. 4 beat, throb, pulse, pulsation, thump: His heart was beating at exactly 72 strokes a minute. 5 attack, seizure, fit, apoplexy, apoplectic fit, spasm, paralytic attack or fit; Technical embolism, thrombosis, cerebrovascular accident, aneurysm: Gerry has been incapacitated since he had a stroke. 6 pat, touch, caress: A few strokes of her fingers on my brow and the headache was gone. 7 achievement, accomplishment, feat, act, action, work; example; touch: Your idea of having a jazz concert to raise money is a stroke of genius. 8 bit, jot or tittle, scrap, iota, touch, stitch, hint, suggestion: You haven't done a stroke of work all morning. 9 occurrence, happening, matter: It was just a stroke of luck that I came along when I did. --v. 10 caress, pet, pat, fondle; massage, rub, soothe: His heart beat faster when she stroked his hand lightly with her fingertips.
strut v. swagger, parade, promenade, peacock, prance: She goes strutting about the office as if she were the boss.
stuffy adj. 1 close, airless, unventilated, oppressive, stifling, suffocating, stale, musty, fusty, mouldy, mildewy, muggy, fetid or foetid, frowzy or frouzy or frowsy, Brit frowsty: It was stuffy in the ancient tomb. 2 pompous, pedantic, self-important, self-centred, stodgy, old-fogyish or old-fogeyish, old-fashioned, strait-laced, staid, conventional, prim (and proper), priggish, niminy-piminy, stilted, stiff, rigid, Colloq fuddy-duddy, uptight: What a bore to be trapped for an entire evening with those stuffy old codgers!
stunted adj. dwarfed, shrunken, undersized, small, tiny, diminutive, little, wee: We saw a bonsai - a stunted Japanese potted tree that was hundreds of years old.
styptic adj. astringent: The styptic effect of alum stops bleeding.
subjugate v. dominate, enslave, enthral, crush, humble, subject, oppress, suppress, put down, tyrannize, subdue, reduce, quell, overcome, overpower, make subservient or submissive, humble, humiliate: Few peoples have been subjugated so ignominiously as the American Indians.
subordinate adj. 1 Often, subordinate to. minor; inferior (to), lower (than), lesser (than), secondary (to), second (to), junior (to), subsidiary (to); next to, below, beneath, under: He had to accept a subordinate position in the new company. His new job is subordinate to that of purchasing director. --n. 2 assistant, aide, junior, subaltern, staff member; underling, hireling, inferior, lackey, servant, slave, vassal; Colloq US staffer: She is a subordinate to the editor-in-chief. --v. 3 make (something) secondary: Too many subordinate community interest to personal greed.
subsidy n. funding, financing, subsidizing, sponsoring, sponsorship, assistance, aid, contribution, support, grant, subvention, maintenance, underwriting, capitalization: Farmers are hoping for increased subsidies.
substratum n. substrate, foundation, underlayer, basis, fundament, base, substructure, groundwork: The agreement rests on a substratum of mutual trust and respect.
subway n. 1 Brit underground (railway), tube: She takes the subway to work. 2 US tunnel, underpass: Use the subway to cross the road in safety.
succumb v. yield, give up, give way, surrender, accede, submit, capitulate: I finally succumbed and agreed to their request for help.
sufficient adj. adequate, enough: Have we sufficient food to last through the winter?
suit v. 1 adapt, accommodate, fit, adjust, tailor, make appropriate or suitable: It will require some reorganization to suit the office space to our needs. 2 please, satisfy, fill (someone's) needs, gratify, be acceptable or suitable or convenient to or for, befit; conform to: Choose whichever room suits you. The schedule does not suit my personal plans at all. --n. 3 jacket and trousers or skirt, outfit, uniform, ensemble, costume, habit; garb, clothing, clothes, livery: He showed up wearing a new silk suit. 4 lawsuit, action, case, proceeding, process, cause, trial; litigation: I do not want to enter into a suit over the damage to my car. 5 petition, plea, request, entreaty, prayer, solicitation, application, appeal, supplication; courtship: The king rejected all suits for his daughter's hand in marriage.
sultry adj. 1 hot, humid, sticky, stuffy, stifling, oppressive, close, muggy, steamy, steaming, moist, damp, sweltering, suffocating: I was happy to be languishing again in the sultry warmth of St Lucia. 2 lusty, lustful, passionate, erotic, seductive, voluptuous, provocative, sensual, Colloq sexy, hot: She continued her sultry, slow, sinuous dance.
sundries n.pl. knick-knacks, trinkets, small items, notions, miscellanea, miscellany, kickshaws, Brummagem, frippery, bric--brac, odds and ends: We might find a button for your shirt in a shop that sells sundries.
superficial adj. 1 surface, external, exterior, shallow, skin-deep, slight, outside: I suffered a superficial wound to the forehead. 2 surface, slight, external, apparent, skin-deep, outward, cursory, insignificant, passing, unimportant, trivial, empty, insubstantial; paying lip-service, for appearances' sake, cosmetic: She bears a superficial resemblance to your sister. His interest in your welfare is entirely superficial. 3 cursory, slapdash, quick, hurried, hasty, perfunctory, nominal, meaningless, passing: The machinery is subjected to a superficial inspection before shipping.
superlative adj. unsurpassed, paramount, supreme, consummate, superior, best, choicest, finest, matchless, peerless, unequalled, unrivalled, singular, unique, incomparable, excellent, superb, sterling, dazzling, first-rate, exceptional, extraordinary, marvellous, spectacular, capital, Colloq tiptop, super, smashing, great, ace, terrific, fantastic, Slang crack: Max turned in a superlative performance in the tournament.
supple adj. 1 flexible, flexile, pliant, bendable, elastic, resilient, pliable, tractile, fictile: He made a rug-beater out of some supple lengths of bamboo. 2 willowy, lithe, limber, nimble, pliant, lissom or lissome, graceful, athletic: She has the supple body of a dancer. 3 tractable, compliant, yielding, accommodating, obliging, complaisant, acquiescent, submissive, unresistant, unresisting, servile, obsequious, ingratiating, fawning, toadying: With supple words the miserable sycophant wormed his way into father's confidence.
supportive adj. helpful, sustaining, supporting, encouraging, sympathetic, understanding, reassuring: Among our many friends, Cleo was the most supportive during the recent trouble.
supremacist n. supremist, bigot, racist, racialist, dogmatist, zealot, fanatic: Supremacists' philosophies are based on hatred, not love.
surfeited adj. gorged, overfed, satiated, sated, stuffed, glutted, jaded: He passed the sleeping surfeited diners and stole into the library unseen.
surprise v. 1 shock, astound, astonish, amaze, disconcert, nonplus, dumbfound or dumfound, stagger, take aback, strike, hit, Colloq floor, bowl over, flabbergast, rock or set (someone) back on his or her or chiefly Brit their heels, Brit knock (someone) for six, US knock (someone) for a loop: What surprised me was her coolness in the face of danger. 2 take or catch unawares, catch red-handed or in the act or in flagrante delicto, catch napping or off guard, discover: When Samuel Johnson's wife found him with a maid, she said, 'Dr Johnson! I am surprised!', to which he replied, 'No, madam: you are amazed. I am surprised.' --n. 3 shock, astonishment, amazement, stupefaction, wonder, incredulity: Imagine my surprise to learn that I was being arrested. 4 blow, jolt, shocker, bolt from or US also out of the blue, bombshell, eye-opener: It came as a surprise to me that my sister was pregnant.
susceptible adj. 1 Often, susceptible of or to. open (to), prone (to), subject (to), disposed (to), predisposed (to), receptive (to), affected by, responsive (to): Brass is susceptible of a high shine. Are you still susceptible to her blandishments? 2 impressionable, influenceable, vulnerable, reachable, accessible, credulous, suggestible, gullible, nave: Susceptible youngsters need protection from commercial exploitation.
sustained adj. continued, continuous, continual, prolonged, unremitting, steady, ceaseless, unceasing, incessant, interminable; uniform, even, level, unchanged, unchanging: The neighbours keep up that sustained caterwauling every night. The audience was thrilled by her sustained top C.
swashbuckling adj. adventurous, daring, daredevil, swaggering, roisterous, bold, dashing, flamboyant: Those old swashbuckling films with Errol Flynn, Richard Green, and Douglas Fairbanks, formed a genre all their own.
sweet adj. 1 sugary, honey-like, honeyed, sweetened: Sweet breakfast cereals are bad for your teeth. 2 fragrant, perfumed, scented, aromatic, ambrosial, sweet-smelling, sweet-scented, balmy, redolent: The night air was sweet with jasmine. 3 harmonious, melodious, sweet-sounding, euphonious, dulcet, musical, tuneful, euphonic, mellifluous, mellow, lyric, silvery, bell-like, golden: I could hear McCormick's sweet voice singing 'Danny Boy'. 4 gentle, amiable, agreeable, genial, warm, friendly, kind, nice, unassuming, easygoing; attractive, appealing, charming, winning, pleasant, pleasing, lovely; cute, pretty: Jane normally has such a sweet disposition. Old Mrs Hughes was always sweet to me when I was little. Amy looks so sweet in her new dress. What a sweet little kitten! 5 dear, beloved, precious, prized, treasured, wonderful, marvellous, splendid, Colloq great: How sweet life can be! 6 considerate, attentive, solicitous, thoughtful, sympathetic, compassionate, kind, kind-hearted, generous, gracious, accommodating: How sweet it was of you to bring flowers! 7 cloying, sentimental, syrupy, saccharine, treacly, precious, honeyed, sickening, Colloq gushing, gushy, sloppy, soppy, maudlin, sticky, Brit twee, Colloq icky: Claire is so sweet that she really overdoes it sometimes. 8 sweet on. fond of, taken with, keen on, devoted to, enamoured of, infatuated with, (head over heels) in love with, Colloq wild or mad or crazy about, nuts about or over, Slang gone on, stuck on, batty about: We were teasing Rick about being sweet on Anne. --n. 9 Often, sweets. bon-bon, chocolate, confection, sweetmeat, Old-fashioned comfit, US candy: Harry always brings a box of sweets for my mother when he comes to see me. 10 dessert, Brit pudding, afters: For a sweet we can offer you a choice between chocolate gateau and gooseberry pie.
swiftly adv. fast, quickly, speedily, rapidly, expeditiously; briskly, hurriedly, hastily, suddenly, abruptly, in a flash, in a trice, in the wink of an eye, before you can say 'Jack Robinson', before you can say 'knife', like a shot, in an instant, in (less than) no time, precipitately, unexpectedly, Colloq like greased lightning, US lickety-split, in a jiffy, Slang pronto, like a bat out of hell: The assembly is done much more swiftly by machine. Swiftly, I ducked into a doorway to avoid being seen.
swipe v. 1 Usually, swipe at. swing at, strike at, hit at, lash out at: He swiped away at the golf ball but kept missing it. 2 steal, filch, pilfer, purloin, Colloq pinch, lift, snitch, Chiefly Brit nick, whip, snaffle: They caught Freddie swiping a bag of mints at Woolworth's. --n. 3 swing, strike, clip: Ronald took a swipe at the ball with his racket.
symbol n. representation, figure, metaphor, allegory, insigne (singular; plural is insignia), token, sign, emblem, badge, image, logotype, mark, trade mark, colophon, brand, code, abbreviation, phonogram, initialism, cryptogram, acronym, monogram, password, shibboleth, watchword, code word; arms, bearing, armorial bearing, crest, escutcheon, coat of arms, banner, flag, pennant, standard, Colloq logo: This jewel is a mere symbol of my devotion and love for you.
sympathy n. 1 compassion, commiseration, pity, concern, tenderness, empathy, understanding, solicitousness, warmth, tender-heartedness, warm-heartedness, Archaic ruth: We feel great sympathy for any child who loses a pet. 2 agreement, harmony, compatibility, rapport, concord, accord, fellow-feeling, congeniality, affinity, closeness, unity, communion, fellowship, camaraderie: It is amazing that there can be so much sympathy between two such different people.
system n. 1 organized whole, organization, set, group, combination; structure, arrangement, pattern, set-up: Some believe that the universe is a vast ordered system, others that it is chaos in which only man sees order. It took years to establish the banking system in this country. 2 scheme, method, approach, modus operandi, way, procedure, methodology, technique, plan, process, practice, routine: There is a proper system for doing the job and you should keep to it.
tacit adj. unspoken, undeclared, unsaid, unstated, unvoiced, unuttered, silent, understood, unexpressed, implied, implicit: The sisters have a tacit agreement not to poach each other's boyfriends. He gave me a look of tacit gratitude.
tactic n. 1 move, manoeuvre, ploy, caper, plan, strategy, stratagem, device, ruse, plot, scheme, design: Inviting her husband along was a tactic merely to avert suspicion. 2 tactics. manoeuvres, strategy, plans, campaign, generalship, military science, military operation(s), orchestration, engineering, masterminding: Entirely different tactics must be employed in jungle fighting.
taint n. 1 stain, blot, blemish, slur, tinge, tincture, (black or bad) mark, stigma, imperfection, flaw, scar, defect; discredit, dishonour: His writing suffers from the taint of pedantry. --v. 2 sully, tarnish, stain, stigmatize, smear, harm, hurt, damage, debase, vitiate, blacken, foul, contaminate, pollute, dirty, muddy, smirch, besmirch, blemish, soil, corrupt, spoil, defile, ruin, destroy: It takes very little to taint one's reputation in a small village.
take v. 1 grip, seize, grasp, clasp, get, get or take hold of, grab, snatch, clutch, catch, capture, obtain, lay hold of, lay (one's) hands on, procure, acquire, gain (possession of), take possession of, secure, win, carry off, abduct, Colloq nab: The police took him into custody. He takes what he can get. When it comes to ineptitude, Sue certainly takes the prize. 2 pick, select, choose, opt for, settle or decide or fasten on or upon: When you get to the fork, take the road to the left. 3 appropriate, arrogate, extract, carry off or away, steal, purloin, pilfer, filch, palm, rob, shoplift, pocket, remove, walk off or away with, run or make off or away with; embezzle, misappropriate, peculate; plagiarize, pirate; Colloq lift, swipe, snitch, Chiefly Brit pinch, nick, Slang knock off, hook, rip off, liberate, US boost, crook: They took what didn't belong to them. 4 reserve, book, engage; hire, rent, lease: He took a room in a small hotel, where he began to write detective fiction. 5 acquire, get, adopt; assume, derive, obtain, draw, receive, inherit: He has taken his bad manners from you. The film takes its title from the book. 6 accept, receive, bear, withstand, stand, endure, weather, tolerate, abide, brave, go through, undergo, suffer, submit to, swallow, Colloq put up with, brook, stomach, Brit stick: She took the news about Leon's relapse quite well. I have taken quite enough from you already. 7 assume, bear, undertake, adopt, arrogate; acknowledge, accept: Kevin took full responsibility for the mistake. 8 believe, think, judge, deem, hold, feel; take for, assess (as), consider (as), regard (as), view (as), accept (for): I take people to be honest till proven otherwise. She took him for a fool when they first met. 9 carry, convey, bear, transport, bring, deliver, ferry; haul, cart: Will this train take me to Aylesbury? They took the bicycle to Old Lyme in a van. 10 take up, study, be involved or occupied in or with, apply oneself to, learn; read, Colloq tackle: I cannot believe that Doreen is taking home economics. He took a course in car maintenance. 11 prove or be effective or efficacious or operative or functional, take effect, take hold, operate, function, work, perform, Colloq do the trick: If the transplant fails to take, the doctors will have to operate again. 12 exact, extract, get: She took revenge by denying him certain privileges. 13 swallow, eat, consume, ingest, devour, gulp down, gobble up or down, wolf, bolt; drink, imbibe, quaff; inhale: Rudolf takes pills of every conceivable colour. The doctor said I could take a wee nip now and then. Sonya stepped out to take a breath of fresh air. 14 subtract, deduct, remove, take away, take from, take off: Take three from five. Five, take away two, leaves three. It's cheaper when you've taken off the discount. 15 end, terminate, annihilate, wipe out; kill: The assault on Leningrad took tens of thousands of lives. The Lord giveth and the Lord taketh away. 16 require, demand, need, necessitate, call for: Remember, it takes two to tango. It took him two years to complete the fresco. It takes six to sail his yawl. 17 hold, contain, accommodate, accept, fit in: This storage bin cannot take anything else, it's completely full. 18 convey, lead, conduct; escort, convoy, guide, accompany: This road takes you directly to the yacht club. He asked to be taken to the manager's office. 19 understand, gather, interpret, perceive, apprehend, deduce, conclude, infer, judge, deem, assume, suppose, imagine, see: I take it from your expression that you've had bad news. 20 charm, captivate, capture, attract, lure, allure: There was something about him that took her fancy. 21 use, employ, make use of, establish, put in(to) place, adopt, put into effect, effect, apply; resort to, have recourse to, turn to: The police have taken measures to ensure that it doesn't happen again. 22 clear, get or go over or past or round or through: Browning's Delight took the last jump easily. He must have taken that corner at 90! 23 experience, entertain, feel: She seemed to take an instant dislike to me. 24 express, voice, raise, put forth: I hope you will not take objection or exception to what I am about to tell you. 25 cause or make or induce or drive or persuade (someone) to go or be: What takes you to M laga in August? 26 act, assume, play, perform: I'm taking the part of the wicked witch in the local pantomime. 27 bilk, cheat, swindle, defraud, Colloq con, Brit fiddle: When he examined his wallet he realized he'd been taken. 28 take aback. astound, astonish, surprise, startle, shock: She was really taken aback at the news. 29 take after. a resemble, look like, be the spitting image or the spit and image of, favour, remind one of, Colloq be a chip off the old block: He takes after his grandfather. b Sometimes, take off after. chase, follow, run after, pursue: When the man stole the newspaper and ran, the shopkeeper took after him at a gallop. 30 take back. retract, withdraw, recant, disavow, repudiate: He now wants to take back what he said about you. 31 take down. a note, make a note or memo or memorandum of, write down, record, put or set down, put in writing, document, transcribe, chronicle: Please take down what I am about to tell you. b debase, deflate, lower, diminish, belittle, depreciate, deprecate, humble, humiliate, shame, disparage, degrade, disgrace: She certainly took that pompous ass down a peg or two. 32 take in. a accommodate, receive, let in, quarter, board, lodge: When her children grew up and left home, she decided to take in lodgers. b deceive, fool, trick, impose upon, overcharge, cheat, mulct, defraud, cozen, bilk, dupe, gull, hoodwink, swindle, Colloq bamboozle, con, pull the wool over (someone's) eyes, Slang Brit do: He was really taken in by that time-share deal. c include, subsume, embrace, comprise, cover, encompass, contain: Our sales figures take in all of North America, not just Canada. 33 take it. a withstand or tolerate or survive punishment or abuse, survive: The Marines are extremely tough and can take it. b See 20, above. 34 take off, remove, doff, strip or peel off, discard, divest (oneself) of: Take off your hat in the house. b satirize, lampoon, caricature, mock, parody, travesty, burlesque, mimic, imitate, Colloq spoof, Brit send up: It is not always easy to take off members of the Cabinet. c depart, leave, go (away), decamp; fly off, become airborne, lift off, blast off; Colloq skedaddle, make (oneself) scarce, Slang hit the road, scram, beat it, split: You'd better take off before they find you here. The plane is due to take off at 18:35. 35 take on, hire, engage, employ, enrol, enlist, retain: We are so busy that we have taken on ten new people. b challenge, rival, face, contend against, oppose, match or pit (oneself) against, vie with, fight: Are you in any condition to take on the champion? c assume, accept, undertake, tackle: You might be taking on more than you bargained for. 36 take out. entertain, escort, invite out; court, woo: He took her out to dinner at a Chinese restaurant. 37 take over. assume or take or usurp or gain control or possession or command of: A huge conglomerate is trying to take over our company. 38 take to. a like, find pleasant or pleasing, feel affection or liking or affinity for, find suitable: We took to each other the very first time we met. He took to computers as a duck takes to water. b leave or depart or take off for, run for, head for, flee to, make for: When the attack came, the villagers took to the hills. 39 take up. a pick up, accept, agree to, acquiesce to, accede to: She took up his offer, and they've been married for forty years. b assume, resume, carry on, continue, go on with, follow on with, pick up: After a pause, he took up the thread of the story once more. c espouse, embrace, become interested or involved in, support, sponsor, advocate: She took up the cause of women's rights at her age? d occupy, cover, use (up), fill (up): Bernard's exercise equipment now takes up half the living-room. e deal with, treat, consider, bring up, raise: Next week our panellists will take up the question, 'Who benefits from education?' --n. 40 revenue, takings, yield, return, receipts, proceeds, gain, profit(s); gate, box office: How much was the take from the first day?
taking adj. attractive, alluring, engaging, captivating, winning, winsome, charming, entrancing, enchanting, bewitching, fetching, fascinating, delightful, irresistible, compelling, intriguing, prepossessing: Cassie's taking ways won her many friends. tale n. 1 story, narrative, report, account, record, chronicle, history, narration, recital, anecdote: We were brought up on tales of the supernatural. Her tale of what happened does not agree with the facts. 2 falsehood, lie, fiction, fib, fabrication, untruth, falsification, exaggeration, Colloq tall tale or story, (cock-and-bull) story, US fish story: He told some tale about having been captured by urban guerrillas. 3 rumour, gossip, slander, allegation, tittle-tattle, libel, story, US chiefly naval scuttlebutt: I have been hearing tales about wild parties at the neighbours' again.
tall adj. 1 high, towering, big, soaring, lofty, giant, gigantic; multi-storey: The giant sequoias of California are the tallest trees in the world. There are many tall buildings in most major cities. 2 lanky, gangling, rangy, leggy, long-legged, big, giant, huge, gigantic, large: Some of those basketball players are unbelievably tall. 3 exaggerated, overblown, far-fetched, improbable, unbelievable, incredible, preposterous, outrageous, overdone, absurd, Colloq Brit steep: He told us some amusing tall tales about his fishing adventures.
tantalize v. tease, taunt, provoke, torment, torture, bait, tempt, plague, frustrate: They tantalized him by hanging the keys to his cell just outside his reach.
target n. goal, object, objective, aim, end; butt, quarry: The target of the charity drive is to raise 30,000. Why make Peter the target of your ridicule?
tasteful adj. in good taste, decorous, refined, finished, tactful, polite, polished, restrained, correct, harmonious, fitting, fit, proper, discriminating, aesthetic, discriminative, fastidious, cultivated, comme il faut, elegant, graceful, charming: Though a bit shabby, her clothes were demure and tasteful.
tautology n. repetition, redundancy, battology, pleonasm, iteration, tautologism; repetitiousness, repetitiveness, wordiness, prolixity, verbiage, verbosity, long-windedness: Clichs like 'null and void' and 'cease and desist' are tautologies. Tautology, when called 'repetition', is often used for rhetorical effect.
tearful adj. weeping, crying, in tears, sobbing, whimpering, dewy-eyed, blubbering, snivelling, lachrymose, Colloq weepy: She was tearful as she told him they could not meet again.
teenager n. adolescent, youth, boy, girl, young man, young lady, juvenile, minor, Colloq kid: The town ought to provide a place where teenagers can get together.
telling adj. 1 effective, effectual, influential, weighty, important, powerful, forceful, potent, significant, considerable, striking: The new colour scheme in the office has had a telling effect on morale. --n. 2 tattling, (too) revealing, Colloq letting the cat out of the bag, giving away the whole show: I cannot say why her key was found in his pocket - that would be telling.
temple n. place or house of worship, holy place, house of God, church, synagogue, mosque, pagoda, cathedral, sanctuary, chapel, shrine, Yiddish shul or schul: Temples to gods are found throughout the world.
temptress n. seductress, vamp, siren, femme fatale, coquette, flirt, enchantress, sorceress, Circe, Slang sexpot, man-eater, US foxy lady, fox, mantrap: You warned me against that temptress because you wanted her for yourself.
tendency n. inclination, bent, leaning, disposition, propensity, predisposition, proclivity, predilection, susceptibility, proneness, readiness, partiality, affinity, bias, drift, direction, trend, movement: Brian has always had a tendency to being overweight. The particles exhibit a tendency to align themselves north and south.
tentative adj. 1 experimental, speculative, exploratory, probative, trial, provisional: We have tentative plans for introducing a new work methodology. 2 unsure, hesitant, uncertain, indecisive, cautious, timid, shy, diffident, uneasy, apprehensive: The child gave him a tentative smile, not knowing what to expect.
terminology n. nomenclature, vocabulary, language, words, locutions, wording, terms, phraseology, phrasing, jargon, shop-talk, argot, cant, Colloq lingo: Medical terminology requires specialized dictionaries.
territory n. 1 area, region, district, neighbourhood, zone, sector, tract, land, precinct, quarter, vicinage, vicinity, purlieu: Each one of these animals stakes out its own territory and protects it. 2 area, bailiwick, domain, province, haunts, patch, Colloq stamping-ground, US turf: Richard would be best advised to stick to his own territory.
testy adj. irritable, bad-tempered, irascible, short-tempered, petulant, touchy, tetchy, querulous, peevish, hot-tempered, crusty, cross, grumpy, grouchy, bearish, crabby, crabbed, fretful, captious, waspish, snappish, quarrelsome, fractious, contentious, choleric, splenetic, ill-humoured, disagreeable, ill-tempered, edgy, on edge, quick-tempered, crotchety, cantankerous, US cranky, Colloq and US and Canadian dialect ornery: The old colonel made a few testy remarks about the boys' haircuts. Why make excuses for his being so testy?
theatrical adj. 1 theatric, dramatic, stage, histrionic, Thespian; repertory: He joined a theatrical company and his family disowned him. 2 stagy, overdone, camp, campy, melodramatic, overwrought, exaggerated, forced, overacted, overacting, sensational, sensationalistic, fake, false, mannered, affected, unnatural, artificial, showy, ostentatious, spectacular, extravagant, Colloq phoney or US also phony, ham or hammy, grandstand: Does Fergus's theatrical behaviour ever embarrass you?
therapist n. psychotherapist, psychologist, analyst, therapeutist, psychiatrist, psychoanalyst, counsellor, advisor, Colloq shrink: For some problems it is best to seek the advice of a trained counsellor or therapist.
thicket n. copse, brake, grove, covert, wood, Brit spinney: We concealed our horses in the thicket and stole ahead on foot.
thinking adj. 1 rational, sensible, ratiocinative, intelligent, reasoning, reasonable; meditative, contemplative, reflective, philosophical, cogitative, pensive, thoughtful, intellectual: Any thinking person would have done the same as you. --n. 2 opinion, judgement, belief, thought, point of view, viewpoint, assessment, evaluation, theory, reasoning, conclusion, idea, philosophy, outlook: There is nothing either good or bad, but thinking makes it so. Do you concur with the current thinking on education?
thought n. 1 thinking, reflection, reflecting, meditation, meditating, contemplation, contemplating, cogitation, cogitating, musing, pondering, rumination, ruminating, brooding, mental activity, mentation, brown study; brainwork, cerebration, deliberation, deliberating, consideration, considering: She was deep in thought. The solution may require considerable thought. 2 idea, notion, brainstorm, observation: I have a thought that I'd like to share with you. 3 consideration, contemplation, planning, plan, scheme, design, intention, expectation, hope, prospect, anticipation, dream, vision: Any thought of taking a few days off had to be abandoned. 4 thoughtfulness, consideration, kindliness, kind-heartedness, concern, compassion, tenderness, kindness, sympathy, attentiveness, regard, solicitude: I don't need any help, but I appreciate the thought. 5 Often, thoughts. recollection(s), memory or memories, remembrance(s), reminiscence(s): Now and then he comforted himself with thoughts of his happy childhood. 6 intellect, intelligence, reasoning, rationality, ratiocination, reason: Some believe that only humans are capable of thought. 7 bit, trifle, touch, small amount, trace, soupon, little, tinge: This champagne is a thought too sweet.
threatening adj. ominous, menacing, portentous, sinister, looming, inauspicious, minatory, minacious, comminatory, intimidating, foreboding, imminent, impending: Threatening storm clouds began to build in the western sky.
throng n. 1 horde, crowd, host, assemblage, assembly, gathering, mass, crush, jam, multitude, congregation, press, swarm, herd, flock, bevy, drove: Throngs of people packed the shopping mall on Saturday. --v. 2 crowd (into), fill, pack (into), cram (into), crush (into), jam (into), press (into), swarm (into), herd (into), flock (into or to); assemble (in or at), gather (in or at), mass (in or at), congregate (in or at): Thousands thronged the stadium to watch the tennis matches.
thumbnail adj. rough, undetailed, cursory, sketchy, superficial; brief, short, quick; compact, concise, pithy, succinct: His poetry is a chilling, thumbnail sketch of the way we live now.
ticklish adj. 1 uncertain, unsteady, unsure, unstable, unsettled, fickle, touch-and-go, touchy: Power that relies on the sword has a ticklish basis. 2 delicate, precarious, risky, hazardous, dangerous, critical, thorny, fragile, awkward: As the canoe drifted towards the waterfall, we found ourselves in a very ticklish predicament. 3 delicate, sensitive, hypersensitive, difficult, touchy, prickly: Cornelia is a bit ticklish on the subject of her holiday plans.
tight adj. 1 secure, firm, fast, fixed, secured, close-fitting, snug, sealed, hermetically sealed, leak-proof, hermetic, impervious, impenetrable, impermeable, airtight, watertight, waterproof,: Make sure that the lid is tight. 2 taut, stretched, tense, constricting, (too) small, ill-fitting: She was wearing a very tight dress. 3 strict, binding, restrictive, stringent, severe, tough, uncompromising, unyielding, rigorous, stern, austere, autocratic, harsh, hard and fast, inflexible: You can't get away with anything under such tight regulations. I have a tight schedule next week. 4 Chiefly nautical taut, (well-)disciplined, orderly, neat, well-organized, trim, tidy, smart: He runs a tight ship. 5 stingy, niggardly, mean, penurious, miserly, parsimonious, penny-pinching, tight-fisted, close-fisted, Colloq Brit mingy: Glenn is much too tight to buy anyone a drink. 6 close, (almost) even, (highly) competitive, neck and neck, evenly matched: It is going to be a tight race. 7 difficult, trying, dangerous, perilous, risky, hazardous, touchy, problematic, sticky, tricky, ticklish, precarious, touch-and-go: The strike has created a tight situation at the office. 8 tipsy, drunk, intoxicated, Colloq high, woozy, under the influence, Brit tiddly: When I saw her, she was too tight to drive. 9 scarce, scanty, hard to find or come by, rare; dear, expensive: Entrepreneurs have found investment money to be pretty tight this year. --adv. 10 tightly, securely, firmly; closely: Keep this door closed tight. Hold me tight. Her hands were clasped tight in prayer. 11 compactly, densely, solidly, firmly, closely: We were packed so tight in the bus that no one could move.
timber n. 1 trees, forest, woodland: The standing timber has been seriously depleted in Brazil. 2 wood, beams, boards, planks, US and Canadian lumber: The timber for our new house arrived today. 3 material, potential, stuff, character, quality, talent, prospect: Agatha seems to be good management timber.
time-worn adj. ageing, old, tired, worn, time-scarred, decrepit, dilapidated, tumbledown, ramshackle, run-down, dog-eared, ragged, moth-eaten, threadbare, seedy, shabby, archaic, antique, well-worn, worn out, pass, broken-down, old-fashioned, out-dated, dated, antiquated, ancient, obsolescent, obsolete, stereotyped, stereotypic(al), hackneyed, stale, trite, overused, Colloq old hat: She went into her time-worn routine about two living as cheaply as one.
tip n. 1 gratuity, baksheesh, pourboire, douceur, lagniappe or lagnappe, present, gift, Colloq little something: That waiter didn't deserve a tip. 2 tip-off, (inside) information, warning, advice, suggestion, clue, hint, pointer, forecast, prediction, Colloq Brit gen: Louie had a tip that the police were coming. Her tip was 'Flapdoodle' to win the fifth race. --v. 3 reward: Why did you tip the barmaid? 4 Usually, tip off. advise, warn, caution, alert, forewarn, notify, let (someone) know, Colloq let (someone) in on: The thieves were tipped off and never arrived.
title n. 1 name: You cannot tell much from a book's title. 2 designation, appellation, epithet: Aubrey is now an earl, but he rarely uses his title. 3 caption, inscription, headline, head, subtitle, legend, subhead, rubric: The title on this picture has nothing to do with its subject. 4 championship, crown: He holds the world heavyweight boxing title. 5 right, interest, privilege, entitlement, ownership, possession, tenure; (title-)deed, documentation of ownership: My aunt has sole title to these lands. --v. 6 name, call, designate, style, label, term, entitle, christen, baptize, nickname, denominate, tag, dub: Harold was titled King of the Revels.
tolerant adj. open-minded, objective, forbearing, unprejudiced, unbigoted, dispassionate, broad-minded, indulgent, magnanimous, patient, generous, charitable, catholic, latitudinarian, permissive, liberal, big-hearted, fair, even-handed, considerate: I am more tolerant of people than of their ideas.
tongue-lashing n. scolding, berating, reproof, rebuke, reprimand; (verbal) abuse, castigation, chastisement, vituperation, revilement, Colloq dressing-down, telling-off, talking-to, Brit slating, ticking-off, wigging: For all his efforts to please, he only got a tongue-lashing for interfering.
topsy-turvy adj. 1 upside down, wrong side up, head over heels, inverted, reversed, backwards, vice versa: The children were wearing their pyjamas topsy-turvy. 2 chaotic, muddled, jumbled, disorderly, disordered, disorganized, confused, mixed-up, messy, untidy, in a muddle, higgledy-piggledy, Colloq arsy-versy, every which way: The room was completely topsy-turvy and it was impossible to find anything.
toss v. 1 throw, cast, lob, pitch, fling, hurl, heave, shy, launch, send, let fly, propel, catapult, sling, bowl, Colloq chuck: The goalkeeper tossed the ball into the middle of the field. 2 shake, jerk, stir up, agitate, fling: Lucy disdainfully tossed her head. 3 shake (up), stir (up), agitate, jiggle, tumble, joggle; wave, lash, thrash: Don't you put the dressing on before you toss the salad? The branches of the huge oak were being tossed about in the storm. 4 writhe, wriggle, squirm, toss and turn, thrash: I tossed all night, unable to get a moment's sleep. 5 pitch, yaw, wallow, roll, lurch, undulate, plunge: Our little boat was tossed this way and that in the heavy seas. --n. 6 throw, lob, pitch, heave, shy: His toss went wild and the ball rolled over the cliff.
touching adj. moving, stirring, emotional, tender, poignant, pathetic, soul-stirring, heart-rending, heart-breaking, sad, pitiful, distressing, distressful: The most touching scene is the one where the boy meets his father for the first time.
tout v. 1 hawk, peddle, sell, promote, talk up, Colloq push, plug: They tout these new headache tablets as miraculous. --n. 2 tipster: He is often seen with racetrack touts.
trackless adj. empty, pathless, untrodden, unexplored, uncharted, virgin, untrod: We found ourselves in the trackless wilderness of central Australia.
tradition n. custom, practice, habit, usage, convention, ritual, rite, unwritten law, institution, form, praxis, lore: Exchanging gifts on Christmas Eve has long been a tradition in our family.
traitor n. turncoat, Judas, quisling, betrayer, renegade, fifth-columnist, US Benedict Arnold, Colloq double-crosser, snake in the grass, double-dealer, two-timer: Some traitor in their midst had revealed their plans to the enemy.
tranquil adj. calm, serene, placid, quiet, peaceful, still, smooth, unagitated, halcyon, relaxed; unruffled, sedate, steady, regular, even, dispassionate, self-possessed, cool, self-controlled, cool-headed, unexcited, undisturbed, untroubled, unperturbed: He often thought back to the tranquil, sultry summer days of his youth. How can Eleanor be so tranquil when everything about her is so chaotic?
transcript n. 1 transcription, translation, transliteration, rendering, interpretation, representation: Most linguists regarded writing as a mere transcript of language. 2 (carbon or machine or Xerox or photostatic or xerographic) copy, carbon, duplicate, duplication, photocopy, reproduction, Photostat, Colloq dupe: I have requested a transcript of the court proceedings.
transgressor n. sinner, offender, criminal, felon, culprit, lawbreaker, trespasser, wrongdoer, evil-doer, villain, miscreant, malefactor, delinquent: The majority of transgressors are apprehended within 24 hours of the crime.
transparent adj. 1 (crystal) clear, pellucid, diaphanous, see-through, limpid, crystalline, sheer, transpicuous: I want completely transparent glass in this window, instead of that frosted glass. 2 plain, apparent, obvious, evident, unambiguous, patent, manifest, unmistakable or unmistakeable, (crystal) clear, as plain as day, as plain as the nose on (one's) face, undisguised, recognizable, understandable, transpicuous: The origin of many English words is transparent because of their spelling. 3 candid, open, frank, plain-spoken, direct, unambiguous, unequivocal, straightforward, ingenuous, forthright, above-board, artless, guileless, simple, nave, undissembling, Colloq on the level, upfront: His transparent honesty makes Clive unsuited to a career in diplomacy.
traumatic adj. shocking, upsetting, disturbing, painful, agonizing, distressing, harmful, hurtful, injurious, damaging, wounding, traumatizing: Few experiences are more traumatic than losing a child.
treaty n. pact, agreement, alliance, concordat, entente, covenant, deal, contract, compact, accord: They entered into a treaty not to violate each other's borders.
tribunal n. court (of justice), bar, bench, judiciary, Inquisition, Star Chamber: Should he be tried before a judicial tribunal or pilloried by the tribunal of public opinion?
trifling adj. trivial, insignificant, unimportant, puny, minor, paltry, slight, petty, inconsequential, frivolous, superficial, incidental, negligible, commonplace, inconsiderable, shallow, valueless, worthless, US and Canadian picayune, Colloq piddling: Their contribution to musical scholarship has been trifling.
trivialize v. belittle, denigrate, lessen, minimize, undervalue, depreciate, underestimate, underrate, make light of, laugh off, underplay, dismiss, disparage, misprize, beggar, deprecate, slight, scoff at, scorn, run down, decry, Colloq put down, play down, pooh-pooh: Edward tends to trivialize the work of others.
truck n. 1 merchandise, commodities, goods, stock, wares, stuff, odds and ends, sundries, junk, rubbish, US trash: There was no one in the shop and all the truck was stacked in the corner. 2 dealing(s), traffic, business, transaction, trade, commerce, communication, contact, connection, (business or social) relations: She refuses to have any truck with the likes of you.
trusting adj. trustful, unsuspicious, confiding, confident, unsuspecting; nave, innocent, gullible, incautious, credulous: It is a good thing that her husband has a trusting nature. Samantha might be a little too trusting and could easily be deceived.
tumbledown adj. ramshackle, dilapidated, ruined, in ruins, decrepit, rickety, shaky, falling apart or to pieces, disintegrating, tottering, broken-down, crumbling, gone to rack and ruin: He lived for years in a tumbledown shanty near the railway.
turn v. 1 rotate, revolve, spin, roll, reel, circle, gyrate, whirl, wheel, go (a)round or about, pivot, swivel: The earth turns on its axis. Turn the crank to raise the bucket. 2 move, shift, wheel, veer, swing, face: As she turned I noticed a horrible scar. 3 reverse, turn (a)round, alter, change, adapt, reorganize, remodel, modify, refashion, reshape, reform, transform, make over, convert, bring over: He has been trying to turn the business into a profit-making enterprise. He has turned defeat into advance. She managed to turn one of the most loyal membrs of the government. 4 go or pass or move (a)round, veer, drive, walk: Turn left at the corner. 5 go bad, become rancid, spoil, curdle, addle, sour, decay, moulder, rot, putrefy, Colloq go off: All the milk in the fridge had turned because of the power cut. 6 apply, put, use, employ: Is there any way we can turn this situation to our advantage? 7 Sometimes, turn aside or away. block, avert, thwart, prevent, balk or baulk, parry, deflect, fend off, check: He deftly turned aside the thrust of the dagger. 8 form, make up, fashion, formulate, construct, cast, create, coin, concoct, express: Donald certainly knows how to turn a felicitous phrase. 9 direct, aim, point: He turned the gun on himself and pulled the trigger. 10 twist, sprain, wrench: I have turned my ankle and cannot walk. 11 twist, wind, snake, curve, bend, arc, coil, loop, meander, zigzag: The road turned this way and that, following the river bank. 12 turn against. defy, mutiny, rebel, revolt, rise (up) against: The captain had not expected the first mate to turn against him, too. 13 turn back. a reverse, repulse, repel, rebuff, drive back, beat back: At last we turned back the enemy's advance. b go back, retrace (one's) steps, return: We must turn back before it is too late. 14 turn down. a refuse, reject, rebuff, decline, deny: My request for help was turned down. b decrease or diminish or lessen or lower or soften the sound of: Turn down the radio, I'm on the phone. 15 turn in. a go to bed or sleep, retire, withdraw, call it a day, Slang hit the sack or the hay: I usually turn in by eleven o'clock. b hand in or over, turn over, deliver, give in, submit, offer, proffer, tender, give back, return, surrender, yield: Please turn in your visitors' badges before you leave. c turn over, deliver (up), inform on, betray, Colloq squeal on, rat on, finger, tell on: For enough money, he'd turn in his own mother. 16 turn into. a turn to, become, change into or to, metamorphose into or to: Right before her, the prince turned into a frog again. b go or come into, drive into, pull into, walk into: They lost sight of the suspect when he turned into a side-street. 17 turn off. a stop, switch off, deactivate, discontinue; extinguish: First turn off the water, then the light. b disillusion, depress, cool (off), disenchant, disaffect, alienate, repel, repulse, bore, offend, put off, displease, sicken, nauseate, disgust: People who don't brush their teeth turn me off. c deviate, diverge: When you come to the fork, turn off to the right. 18 turn on. a start (up), switch on, energize, activate, set in motion, cause to function or operate: Turn on the light. b depend on or upon, be contingent on, hinge on or upon, be subject to: The success of the venture turns on our ability to capitalize it. c excite, thrill, arouse, stimulate, titillate, work up, impassion: He was really turned on by the girl in the bar. 19 turn on or upon. a concern, revolve about, relate to: The discussion turned on his ability to write music. b be hostile to, attack, assail, set upon, Colloq tear into: Oliver is so unpopular that his own dog turned on him and bit him. 20 turn out. a make, form, shape, construct, build, fabricate, put together, assemble, manufacture, produce, put out, bring out: The plant turns out a thousand cars a week. b develop, evolve, eventuate, happen, result, prove, occur, end up, arise: As it turned out, he lost anyway. It turns out that he knows my sister. c eject, evict, throw out, expel, oust, dismiss, terminate, cashier, Colloq fire, sack, kick out, axe, Brit turf out: When they found I wasn't a member, they turned me out. d dress, fit out, equip, rig out, accoutre or US also accouter: She was well turned out in a beautiful ball gown. e come, arrive, appear, attend, assemble, meet, Colloq show (up), surface: 55,000 turned out for the rock concert. 21 turn over. a consider, muse or ruminate over or about, revolve, ponder (over): I needed a while to turn over the job offer in my mind. b reverse, invert, turn upside down: Turn over the clock and read the inscription on the bottom. c overturn, upset, knock over: In my haste, I turned over the punch bowl. d sell, merchandise: A shop in that location ought to turn over a million a year. e rotate, revolve, spin, kick over: The engine turns over, but it won't start. 22 turn tail. run away, flee, bolt, scoot, show a clean pair of heels, cut and run, take to (one's) heels, beat a hasty retreat, Colloq take off, beat it, scram, skedaddle: He turned tail when I shouted for help. 23 turn to. a appeal to, apply to, resort to: She turned to me for help. b advert to, refer to, pick or take up, have recourse to: Please turn to your exercise books now. c get to work, pitch in, buckle or knuckle down: The neighbours turned to in helping clean up the mess after the storm. d turn into, change to, convert into, become: Lot's wife was turned to salt. 24 turn turtle. capsize, overturn, keel over, upset, up-end, Colloq go bottoms up: The overloaded barge turned turtle and sank in the river. 25 turn up. a surface, appear, arrive, Colloq show (up), show one's face: Guess who turned up at our wedding? b come up, arise, Colloq crop up, pop up: Something will turn up soon for you. c uncover, discover, find, unearth, come across, hit upon, dig up, expose, disclose, reveal, bring to light: We turned up a formerly unknown fact about the shipwreck. d increase or raise or amplify or intensify the sound of: Turn up the TV - I can't hear what they're saying. --n. 26 revolution, rotation, cycle, spin, whirl, circuit, round, roll, twirl; pirouette: He gave the top another turn, just to make sure it was on securely. 27 curve, bend, turning, corner, sinuosity, dog-leg, hairpin bend or curve, irregularity, meander, twist, zigzag, Colloq toing and froing: There are many dangerous turns on that road. 28 loop, coil, spiral, twist: Take two turns of this rope round your waist, then knot it. 29 deviation, turning, detour, shift, change of direction or course: A turn to the right is not permitted at this corner. 30 opportunity, chance, say, round, spell, time, watch, shift, stint, tour (of duty), move, trick, Colloq whack, crack, shot, go: You have had your turn, now let someone else go. 31 drive, spin, ride; airing, constitutional, ramble, saunter, stroll, walk, promenade, amble: Let's take a short turn round the park. 32 trend, direction, drift: The conversation took a new turn. 33 change, alteration, switch: The doctor says that Valerie has taken a turn for the better. 34 Usually, bad turn. disservice, harm, injury, wrong: If you do someone a bad turn, what can you expect? 35 Usually, good turn. favour, (good) deed, act (of kindness), courtesy, boon, mercy: One good turn deserves another. 36 shock, fright, surprise, start, scare: You really gave me a turn, jumping out like that! 37 form, style, manner, mode: Each turn of phrase in her writing seems original and refreshing. 38 disposition, inclination, bent, bias, leaning, tendency: Alistair is of a rather dour turn of mind tonight.39	at every turn. everywhere, constantly, always, all the time: In Scotland, we met with kindness and hospitality at every turn.40	by turns. alternately, reciprocally, in rotation, successively, in succession: The book is fascinating and frustrating by turns. 41 in turn. sequentially, one after the other, in succession, successively, in (proper) order: Each patient will be treated in turn. 42 out of turn. a out of sequence, out of order: I don't want you answering questions out of proper turn, Jonathan. b imprudently, indiscreetly, improperly, disobediently, inappropriately: I apologize if I am speaking out of turn on this issue. 43 take turns. alternate, vary, rotate, exchange: Let's take turns looking through the telescope.
twee adj. precious, sweet, sentimental, quaint, dainty, cute, mignon(ne), bijou: The tearoom atmosphere is a bit too twee for my taste.
twinkle v. 1 scintillate, sparkle, coruscate, glitter, shimmer, wink, flicker, glisten, glint, flash, fulgurate, spark, dance, blink, shine, gleam: The stars were twinkling in the icy black sky. Nicole's eyes twinkled as she told me about Max's latest success. --n. 2 twinkling, scintillation, scintillating, sparkle, sparkling, coruscation, coruscating, glitter, glittering, shimmer, shimmering, winking, flicker, flickering, glistening, glint, flash, flashing, fulguration, spark, sparking, dancing, blinking, shine, shining, gleam, gleaming, dazzle, dazzling: From far off, I caught the twinkle of the sun on car windscreens.
two-faced adj. double-dealing, hypocritical, duplicitous, dissembling, deceitful, Janus-faced, treacherous, dishonest, untrustworthy, insincere, scheming, designing, crafty, Machiavellian, sly, perfidious, lying, mendacious: That two-faced liar told you one story and me another!
tyrant n. dictator, despot, autocrat, martinet, Hitler, bully, oppressor, authoritarian, hard taskmaster, slave-driver, Simon Legree, overlord: It seems that no people or part of the world is immune to tyrants.
ultra- adj. extreme, immoderate, excessive, drastic, radical, fanatic(al), unmitigated, outrageous, unqualified, sheer, blatant, out-and-out, complete, thorough, thoroughgoing, dyed in the wool, die-hard, rabid, opinionated, unregenerate, unrepentant, unreformed, fundamentalist, prejudiced, bigoted, Colloq hard-nosed: Ultra-conservativism marked his views till the day he died.
unacceptable adj. unsatisfactory, objectionable, wrong, bad, improper, unallowable, undesirable, not de rigueur, distasteful, disagreeable, unsuitable, inappropriate, unpleasant, tasteless: Murder is generally regarded as an unacceptable way to relieve oneself of unwanted company.
unarmed adj. unprotected, defenceless, weaponless: The army began shooting unarmed civilians.
unbearable adj. intolerable, unsupportable, unendurable, insufferable, unacceptable, too much: The pain in her side was almost unbearable.
uncivilized adj. 1 barbarous, savage, wild, uncultivated, barbarian, barbaric, crude, primitive, brutish: He was an uncivilized man living in uncivilized surroundings. 2 unrefined, uncultured, uncouth, loutish, coarse, uneducated, untutored, unpolished, churlish, boorish, philistine, provincial, rough, rude, unlearned, ill-mannered, incondite, unmannerly, unsophisticated, inelegant, gross, gauche: Anna's father forbade her to go out with the uncivilized boors in the nearby town.
undercut v. 1 undermine, excavate, hollow out, cut out or away, gouge out: If you undercut the roadway it will collapse. 2 underprice, undercharge, sacrifice, sell cheaply or at a loss, undersell: The supermarkets undercut prices and put the independent grocers out of business.
understanding n. 1 agreement, contract, arrangement, bargain, covenant, concession, pact, compact, accord, treaty, concordat, entente, alliance, truce, armistice, reconciliation, settlement: They reached an understanding with respect to nuclear weapons. 2 discernment, sensitivity, sensitiveness, sympathy, empathy, perception, insight, good sense, intuition, enlightenment, percipience, sagacity, sageness, sapience, wisdom, Colloq savvy: Georgianna brings so much understanding to her treatment of the aged. 3 Usually, understanding of. comprehension or, awareness or grasp or control or idea or conception or knowledge or mastery (of), acquaintance or familiarity or intimacy or dexterity or skilfulness or deftness or adroitness or adeptness (with), competence or skill or expertness or know-how or proficiency or expertise (in), Colloq US fix (on), handle (on): I know no one with a better understanding of medieval Welsh. 4 reading, interpretation, opinion, judgement, estimation, notion, view, perception, apperception, apprehension: My understanding of what took place is at odds with yours. 5 intellect, intelligence, mind, brain, brainpower, sense, reason, reasoning power, wisdom, Colloq brains: I'm afraid that he lacks the understanding needed to cope with the subtleties of the situation.
underwrite v. 1 back (up), finance, support, invest in, subsidize, subvene, sponsor, uphold, approve, insure, guarantee, US subvene: The company has agreed to underwrite the development of your invention. 2 subscribe to, endorse or indorse, sign, countersign, consent to, agree to, confirm, accede to, sanction, ratify, approve, validate, Colloq OK or okay: The government underwrote the action one day, then denied knowledge of it the next.
undivided adj. 1 whole, entire, unbroken, uncut, intact, unseparated, complete, unsplit: The family lands remained undivided for generations. 2 undiverted, whole, entire, devoted, concentrated, full, complete, exclusive, undistracted: You have my undivided attention.
unearthly adj. 1 supernatural, unnatural, preternatural, unworldly, other-worldly, psychic(al), extramundane, extraterrestrial, extrasensory, supersensory, out-of-(the)-body, asomatous, incorporeal, sublime, celestial, astral: They speculated about what unearthly experiences space travel might lead to. 2 weird, bizarre, macabre, nightmarish, uncanny, eerie, strange, ghostly, spectral, unreal, Literary eldritch, Colloq spooky, creepy: An unearthly creature appeared in a mist before her. 3 strange, odd, peculiar, unusual, abnormal, absurd, out of the ordinary, extraordinary, outrageous; unheard-of, unreasonable, Colloq ungodly: The baby wakes up at the unearthly hour of three o'clock every morning.
unfold v. 1 open (out or up), spread (out), unfurl, stretch out, expand, uncoil, unwind, straighten out: Emerging from the pupa, it unfolds its wings and becomes a beautiful butterfly. 2 develop, evolve, happen, take place, occur, be divulged, be disclosed or revealed: What will unfold next in our little drama?
ungrateful adj. unthankful, unappreciative, rude; selfish, heedless: That ungrateful wretch never thanked me for all my help.
unidentified adj. nameless, anonymous, unknown, unmarked, unnamed, unknown, unfamiliar, unrecognized, mysterious: The police found the body of a unidentified woman in the park.
uninhibited adj. wild, unchecked, unbridled, uncurbed, intemperate, boisterous, unrepressed, unconstrained, unrestrained, uncontrolled, unselfconscious, unreserved, relaxed, casual, easygoing, free (and easy), open, frank, candid, outspoken, Colloq upfront: Their behaviour at the party was totally uninhibited. I will tell you what I think only if I can be totally uninhibited about it.
unity n. 1 consistency, unanimity, constancy, uniformity, sameness, consensus, agreement, concord, concordance, accord, solidarity, compatibility, concurrence, continuity, consentaneousness, rapport, sympathy, like-mindedness: All members of the association enjoy a unity of purpose. 2 oneness, singularity, integrity, singleness, congruity, uniformity, congruousness, homogeneity, identity, sameness, resemblance, likeness, similarity, similitude: If there is little unity between your ideas and those of the organization, perhaps you should resign. 3 unification, uniting, combination: In unity is strength.
unlike adj. 1 different (from), dissimilar (to), unalike, distinct (from), opposite (from or to), contrasting or contrastive (with or to), separate (from), divergent (from), incompatible (with), distinguishable (from), far apart (from), far (from), distant (from), ill-matched (with), unequal (to), unequivalent (to): His notions of right and wrong are unlike those of other people. Although they're brothers, they look quite unlike each other. 2 atypical, uncharacteristic, untypical: It is unlike you to complain. --prep. 3 different from, differing from, in contradistinction to, in contrast with or to, dissimilar to, distinct from, opposite from or to, contrasting with or to, divergent from, incompatible with, distinguishable from, ill-matched with, unequal to, unequivalent to: Unlike you, I've been there and know what it's like.
unnatural adj. 1 Derogatory abnormal, perverse, perverted, monstrous, unusual, peculiar, strange, aberrant, improper, unseemly; Slang kinky , Chiefly Brit bent: There was a scandal when the senator was found to have engaged in some unnatural act. 2 sodomitic(al), bestial, tribadic, tribadistic: They still coyly referred to homosexual activities as 'unnatural acts'. 3 uncharacteristic, out of character, odd, peculiar, strange, unexpected, abnormal, unusual: Isn't it unnatural for someone who has won the sweepstakes to look so unhappy? 4 laboured, forced, stilted, stiff, restrained, artificial, false, insincere, feigned, contrived, affected, mannered, self-conscious, theatrical, stagy: She has an irritating, unnatural laugh. 5 outlandish, weird, uncanny, strange, odd, unaccountable, supernatural, preternatural, queer, grotesque, bizarre, extraordinary, eccentric, freakish: Let me tell you about the unnatural events that took place in that house.
unpaid adj. 1 payable, outstanding, owed, owing, due, unsettled: In the end he absconded, leaving a pile of unpaid bills. 2 unsalaried, voluntary, volunteer, honorary, US dollar-a-year: On retirement, she took an unpaid job with Oxfam.
unprofessional adj. 1 unbecoming, improper, unethical, unprincipled, unseemly, undignified, unfitting, unbefitting, unworthy, unscholarly, negligent, lax: The Medical Association is quick to act against doctors whose conduct might be judged unprofessional. 2 amateurish, amateur, inexpert, inexperienced, untrained, untutored, unschooled, incompetent, unskilled, unskilful, inferior, second-rate, inefficient, poor, shoddy, low-quality, sloppy: It was an astonishingly unprofessional way to audit accounts. 3 non-technical, unspecialized, non-specialist, lay, everyday, ordinary, plain (English), understandable: What does all that gobbledegook mean when translated into unprofessional language?
unreasonable adj. 1 irrational, illogical, unthinking, absurd, foolish, senseless, nonsensical, mindless, brainless, thoughtless, silly, mad, crazy, insane, idiotic, moronic, imbecilic, stupid, fatuous, ridiculous, ludicrous, laughable, preposterous, far-fetched, short-sighted, unperceptive, unperceiving, undiscerning, myopic, blind: Some people have an unreasonable aversion to anything scientific. Is it unreasonable to expect you to spend a little time with your mother? 2 excessive, outrageous, exorbitant, extravagant, immoderate, extortionate, inordinate, unconscionable, unjust, unwarranted, inequitable, unfair, unequal, improper, unjustified, unjustifiable, uncalled-for: The new tax puts an unreasonable demand on those with lower incomes. 3 inappropriate, unapt or inapt, unsuitable, unbefitting, impractical, unrealistic: His conduct was quite unreasonable for a man of the cloth.
unsatisfactory adj. insufficient, inadequate, inferior, poor, unacceptable, displeasing, disappointing, unworthy, inappropriate, deficient, weak, wanting, lacking, unsuitable, imperfect, flawed, defective, faulty: The report was unsatisfactory in that it failed to meet the committee's demands. Why put up with unsatisfactory workmanship?
unsettling adj. unnerving, upsetting, disturbing, perturbing, discomfiting, disconcerting: Sorry for being a wet blanket, but I have had some unsettling news from home.
unsuccessful adj. 1 unfortunate, unavailing, vain, abortive, useless, bootless, fruitless, unfruitful, unproductive, ineffective, ineffectual, inefficacious, worthless, unprofitable, sterile: We made an unsuccessful attempt to regain control of the company. 2 unlucky, hapless, unfortunate, luckless, defeated, beaten, jinxed, cursed, foiled, frustrated, balked: Trevor complained that he had been unsuccessful in business all his life.
unthinking adj. 1 thoughtless, mindless, undiscriminating, unconsidered, unwitting, unreflecting, unthoughtful, irrational, unreasonable, illogical, unperceptive, unperceiving, undiscerning, witless, brainless, foolish, senseless, nonsensical, rash, stupid, silly, mad, crazy, insane, idiotic, moronic, imbecilic, hasty, short-sighted: It was unthinking of me to ask her mother to go out to dinner with us. 2 inconsiderate, impolite, tactless, rude, thoughtless, undiplomatic, discourteous, uncivil, imprudent, unwise, indiscreet, neglectful: On the other hand, it would have been unthinking of me not to ask her mother.
unusual adj. uncommon, exceptional, atypical, untypical, different, unexpected, singular, out of the ordinary, extraordinary, odd, peculiar, curious, bizarre, strange, queer, remarkable, unique, freakish, unprecedented, unconventional, unorthodox, Slang off-the-wall: It takes an unusual person to be as charitable as Jean. Don't you agree that an egg-laying mammal is a bit unusual?
unwieldy adj. awkward, clumsy, bulky, oversized, cumbersome, ungainly, unmanageable, unhandy, unmanoeuvrable: The huge oil tankers, though economical, often proved unwieldy in the ports they visited.
upper adj. 1 higher (up), loftier, topmost, more elevated, uppermost: Air is less dense in the upper parts of the atmosphere. Our flat is on an upper floor. Her best notes are sung in the upper register. 2 higher, upland, more elevated; (more) northerly, northern: We visited the cataracts on the upper reaches of the Nile. We spent the holiday in upper Canada. 3 later, more recent: These strata were laid down in the Upper Cretaceous period. 4 upper case. capital letter(s), capital(s), majuscule (letters or characters): The heading ought to be in upper case. 5 upper crust. upper class, lite, aristocrats, nobles, blue bloods, wealthy, US Four Hundred: Gregory thinks of himself as a member of the upper crust and won't associate with us. 6 upper hand. advantage, control, authority, power, sway, superiority, supremacy, command, dominance, ascendancy, Colloq edge: Purvis kowtows to whoever has the upper hand. --n. 7 on (one's) uppers. poor, indigent, destitute, poverty-stricken, Colloq broke: Stanley has been on his uppers since losing his job.
uproot v. 1 transfer, transplant, move, displace; exile, banish: Finney has been uprooted five times in his career with the firm. 2 deracinate, extirpate, root out, dig out, pluck out, tear out; destroy, demolish, ruin, eradicate, annihilate, kill, ruin, devastate, ravage: Thousands of trees were uprooted by the hurricane.
urinate v. pass or make water, Technical micturate; Babytalk (make a) wee, (go) wee-wee, (have a or US also take a) pee, (make) pee-pee, do number one, tinkle, piddle; Euphemistic go to the men's or ladies' (room), go to the lavatory, excuse (oneself), wash (one's) hands, go to the bathroom, go to the powder-room; Mincing go to the little boys' or girls' room; Colloq Brit spend a penny, go to the loo, Slang (take or have a) piss, Brit have a or go for a slash: One symptom of cystitis is pain when urinating.usage n. 1 use, custom, habit, practice, routine, convention, form, tradition: British usage reflects decreasing use of the subjunctive mood. 2 treatment, use, management, handling, operation, manipulation: It would appear that the car has been subjected to some rough usage.
usual adj. same, customary, habitual, accustomed, familiar, well-known, common, everyday, established, traditional, set, time-honoured, old, conventional, workaday, stock, wonted, regular, ordinary, normal, expected, routine, typical, run-of-the-mill, stereotypic(al), hackneyed, trite, prosaic, worn out, shop-worn, predictable, unexceptional, unoriginal, unremarkable, unimaginative: The usual answer I get is 'Why?' I missed my usual train this morning. They still sing the usual drinking songs.
vague adj. 1 indefinite, indistinct, imprecise, inexact, unclear, confused, unspecified or non-specified, general, generalized, unspecific or non-specific, inexplicit or unexplicit, ill-defined, hazy, fuzzy, ambiguous, obscure, amorphous; shapeless, blurred, blurry, filmy, dim, shadowy, veiled, bleary, foggy, misty, cloudy, clouded, hardly or barely distinguishable or discernible: I have only a vague recollection of our having met. She must have had a vague idea of your intentions. Leon could almost make out the vague shape of an approaching figure. 2 undetermined, indeterminate, unfixed, indefinite, inexact, unspecified or non-specified, unspecific or non-specific, ambiguous, doubtful, in doubt, uncertain, equivocal, ambiguous: For security reasons, her time of arrival was left vague. 3 veiled, concealed, hidden, shrouded, obscure, ill-defined, unspecific or non-specific, inexplicit or unexplicit, ambiguous: There had been a vague threat of kidnapping, which should not have been ignored. 4 subliminal, subconscious, indefinable, unexplained: I had a vague sensation of being followed. 5 indefinite, ambiguous, wishy-washy, undecided, indecisive, irresolute, vacillating, wavering, inconstant, unsettled, uncertain, nebulous, up in the air: Leonore is vague about her plans to run for re-election. 6 vacant, empty, blank, expressionless, empty, vacuous, dull; puzzled: By their vague expressions I could see they hadn't understood a word.
variance n. 1 variation, difference, disparity, discrepancy, disagreement, deviation, inconsistency, divergence, incongruity: The monitor takes account of minute variance in blood pressure. 2 disagreement, misunderstanding, discord, difference (of opinion), dissension, contention, dispute, dissent, controversy, quarrel, conflict, argument, debate, lack of harmony, falling out, schism, rift: There has never been any variance between us about the disciplining of the children. 3 at variance. in dispute, in disagreement, quarrelling, in contention, in conflict: The workforce was at variance with management in the matter of day care.
vast adj. infinite, unlimited, boundless, limitless, unbounded, interminable, endless, never-ending, inexhaustible, indeterminate, immeasurable, incalculable, measureless; immense, enormous, huge, tremendous, great, prodigious, stupendous, gigantic, massive, voluminous, capacious, colossal, monumental, mammoth, jumbo, elephantine, behemoth, Cyclopean, Brobdingnagian, titanic, Literary vasty, Colloq ginormous, humongous: It is difficult to comprehend the vast distances of space. There is a vast difference between the climates of California and the Midwest.
vendetta n. (blood) feud, quarrel, dispute, conflict, rivalry, enmity, bitterness, hatred, ill will, bad blood: Fifty years after leaving Palermo, the vendetta between their families still persisted.
venom n. 1 poison, toxin: The snakes are 'milked' of their venom, which is collected for research in antitoxins and pharmaceuticals. 2 malice, maliciousness, malevolence, ill will, malignity, animosity, hate, hatred, hostility, antagonism, spite, spitefulness, spleen, rancour, bitterness, embitteredness, gall, poison, poisonousness, virulence: Vinnie was totally unprepared for the venom of the attack.
verge v. incline, lean, tend, extend, stretch, turn; approach, draw, move: The road verges southwards after the bridge.
verve n. spirit, vivacity, vivaciousness, vitality, life, liveliness, animation, sparkle, energy, vigour, exuberance, briskness, brio, esprit, lan, dash, flair, panache, flourish, enthusiasm, zeal, zest, gusto, Colloq pizazz, zip, vim, get-up-and-go, zing, oomph: Helen's verve adds much to this production of Carmen .
viable adj. sustainable, supportable, sensible, reasonable, practical, practicable, applicable, workable, feasible, possible: We have three days to come up with a viable plan for continuing the research project.
vicissitude n. 1 change, mutation, alteration, changeability, mutability, variation, variability, variety, alternation, flux, fluctuation, unpredictability: Who seeks stability in life often encounters its vicissitude. 2 vicissitudes. fluctuations, changes, variations, contrasts, inconstancy, unpredictability, uncertainties, Colloq ups and downs, flukiness: His success is amazing in light of the vicissitudes he survived.
viewpoint n. standpoint, (point of) view, attitude, angle, slant, position, stance, vantage point, perspective, frame of reference, way of thinking, context: From our viewpoint, widening the road only encourages speeding.
villain n. wretch, evil-doer, criminal, miscreant, blackguard, rogue, rascal, cad, scallywag or scalawag, malefactor, scoundrel, dog, cur, viper, reptile, snake in the grass, rat, Archaic rapscallion, Literary knave, caitiff, Colloq Brit bounder, blighter, Slang bastard, son of a bitch, Brit rotter, US SOB or sob (= 'son of a bitch'): The villain of the film is a smooth-talking charmer who swindles old ladies out of their savings.
violent adj. 1 wild, physical, destructive, vehement, brutal, brutish, beastly, nasty, cruel, mean, barbarous, inhuman, savage, fierce, ferocious, furious, frenzied, uncontrollable, untamed, ungovernable, raging, raving, irrational, insane, crazed, Colloq fit to be tied: Tony turned into a violent maniac when he suspected her of seeing another man. 2 harmful, injurious, damaging, detrimental, destructive, deleterious, catastrophic, cataclysmic, ruinous, devastating: This was the most violent earthquake to hit Mexico in recorded history. 3 acute, serious, severe, extreme, harsh, trenchant, virulent, intense, energetic, forceful, vehement, passionate, impetuous,tempestuous: The proceedings were interrupted by an outburst of violent abuse from the public gallery.
visible adj. 1 seeable, perceivable, perceptible, discernible, detectable, discoverable, noticeable, unmistakable or unmistakeable, clear, obvious, observable; visual: The visible part of the energy spectrum is relatively small. The entrance holes to their burrows were clearly visible. 2 obvious, conspicuous, evident, apparent, prominent, manifest, distinct, patent, well-defined, identifiable: The consequences of the Act of Union of 1707 are still visible in Scotland today.
vitalize v. stimulate, activate, arouse, vivify, animate, awaken, inspirit, invigorate, enliven, inspire, revive, rejuvenate, innervate, energize, fortify, reinvigorate, renew, refresh, charge (up): The tonic vitalized him to the point where he felt young again.
voice n. 1 speech, utterance, articulation, words, expression: Keith found it difficult to give voice to his innermost thoughts. 2 share, part, vote, participation, say, decision, option, turn, chance: As a junior member of the board, Nicholas had no voice in major decisions. 3 spokesman, spokeswoman, spokesperson, representative, agent, agency, instrument; organ, medium, vehicle, forum, publication: Throughout his time in government, Logan had served as the voice of the miners. The Clarion views itself as the voice of all the people, though it actually represents only a few. --v. 4 express, utter, articulate, enunciate, present, verbalize, put into words, give utterance or voice or expression or vent to, communicate, convey, declare, assert, make known, reveal, disclose, raise, bring up, air: I must voice my misgivings about the step you are planning to take.
voluntarily adv. freely, willingly, spontaneously, of (one's) own free will, on (one's) own (initiative or recognizance or responsibility), without prompting, without being prompted or asked, gratis, gratuitously; by choice, intentionally, purposely, on purpose, deliberately: Some of the students spent their summer vacation voluntarily helping the needy.
vow v. 1 swear, pledge, promise, assure, state, declare, give (one's) (solemn) word (of honour): I vowed to return after the war to care for those who had helped me escape. --n. 2 oath, pledge, promise, agreement; (solemn) word (of honour): She will keep her vow, you may be certain. vulgar adj. 1 indelicate, boorish, uncultured, uncultivated, low, unrefined, common, plebeian, inelegant, unladylike, ungentlemanly, gauche, uncouth, coarse, tasteless, ostentatious, ignoble, low-class, Colloq flash: The boss's wife was known for her vulgar behaviour at the dinner table. 2 tasteless, indelicate, indecent, rude, crude, naughty, dirty, improper, off colour, risqu, ribald, blue, indecorous, nasty, offensive, gross, lustful, obscene, lewd, lascivious, licentious, smutty, salacious, scatological, filthy, pornographic, Slang US raunchy: He made a lot of money through publishing vulgar magazines and videos. 3 popular, vernacular, ordinary, everyday, general, homespun, commonplace, household, average: Dictionaries should record the vulgar language as well as the literary.
wag n. comedian, wit, punster, pundit, joker, jester, comic, jokester, droll, merry andrew, clown, Colloq card: A wag said that tailors were like storks - known for their big bills.
wakeful adj. 1 awake, sleepless, waking, unsleeping, restless, restive, insomniac: The children were wakeful the entire night in anticipation of a visit from Santa Claus. 2 watchful, (on the) alert, on the qui vive, sharp, attentive, vigilant, wary, cautious, observant, heedful, on the lookout: We remained wakeful, alert to any footstep.
wane v. 1 decrease, diminish, grow less, lessen, decline, die out, abate, ebb, subside, fade (away), dim, taper off, peter out, wind down, weaken: The waning moon cast its pale light on the dying knight. As his strength waned he could no longer lift his sword. 2 draw to a close, end, terminate: The day waned into a gloomy evening. --n. 3 decrease, diminution, lessening, decline, abatement, ebb, subsidence, fading, tapering off, petering out, winding down, weakening, deterioration, degeneration: The 1970s saw the wane in popularity of large, gas-guzzling cars. 4 on the wane. on the decrease or decline or ebb, diminishing, decreasing, declining, abating, subsiding, fading, tapering off, petering out, winding down, weakening, deteriorating, degenerating: The economy is recovering, and inflation is on the wane. Since that latest illness, my energy has been on the wane.
warehouse n. storehouse, store, storeroom, depository, stockroom, depot, go-down: The books are kept in a warehouse and shipped to customers as needed.
warning n. 1 caution, admonition, advice, counsel, caveat, word (to the wise), tip, notification, notice, threat; lesson, example: Cyril never took seriously his doctor's warning about his cholesterol level. Let that be a warning to you not to drink and drive. 2 omen, sign, signal, indication, augury, foretoken, portent, foreshadowing, forewarning, prophecy: Sailors take that kind of sky and a falling barometer as warning of a hurricane.
washout n. failure, disaster, dbcle, (total) loss, fiasco, disappointment, Colloq flop, dud, Brit damp squib, US lead balloon: His attempts to revive the hula-hoop craze were a washout.
water-colour n. aquarelle: John's water-colours sell as fast as he paints them.
weaken v. 1 debilitate, enfeeble, enervate, emasculate, mitigate, moderate, dilute, deplete, diminish, lessen, depress, lower, reduce, sap, undermine, exhaust, impoverish: The continuous torture helped to weaken Errol's resolve. 2 fade, dwindle, tire, droop, sag, fail, give way, crumble, flag: My determination weakened when I saw what had happened to the children. 3 give in, relent, acquiesce, give way, yield, accede, consent, agree, assent, soften, bend, ease up, let up, ease off, relax: If you ask very politely, she might weaken and allow you to go out and play. 4 water (down), dilute, thin (out): Adding the water so weakened the soup that it tasted like dishwater.
weave v. 1 loom; braid, plait, entwine, intertwine, interlace, interweave, knit (together): These fabrics were woven by hand. Weave these leather strands together to make a belt. 2 blend, combine, fuse, merge, unite, intermingle, mesh, splice, dovetail, join: The threads of their lives are inextricably woven together. 3 construct, make, contrive, build, create, fabricate, compose, spin, design: Oh, what a tangled web we weave When first we practise to deceive! 4 zigzag, criss-cross, wend or make (one's) way, dodge, bob and weave, shift: Look at that motor cyclist weaving in and out of the traffic! 5 get weaving. get started, get a move on, hurry (up), start, Colloq shake a leg, Brit get or pull (one's) finger out, Chiefly US get a wiggle on: If you're going to get to work on time, you'd best get weaving.
weigh v. 1 Sometimes, weigh in at or out at. Colloq tip the scales at: The sailboard weighed in at 250 pounds. I weigh more than I should. 2 consider, ponder, contemplate, think on or over or about, mull over, turn over in the or (one's) mind, ruminate over, chew over, reflect on or upon, brood over, pore over, study, examine: After weighing the qualifications of the candidates, we voted for you. Weigh your words carefully before responding. 3 judge, estimate, assess, evaluate, value, determine: It is not easy to weigh each person's contribution to the effort. 4 Usually, weigh on or upon. lie heavy on, burden, depress, prey on, oppress, disturb, perturb, upset: Loneliness weighs heavily on Dave's widow. 5 matter, count, have (an) effect or influence, carry weight, be of value or account, Colloq cut any ice: Certain factors - like the sizes of the bribes - are likely to weigh heavily with the judges of this particular beauty contest. 6 weigh down. burden, overburden, load, overload, encumber, tax, overtax, strain, trouble, worry, depress, oppress: He's been weighed down by financial worries since losing his job.
well adv. 1 satisfactorily, sufficiently, adequately, agreeably, nicely, (well) enough, Colloq OK or okay: Alan is doing well these days. 2 successfully, famously, marvellously, wonderfully, fabulously, incredibly, splendidly, admirably, spectacularly, excellently, superbly: Barbara and David really get along well together. 3 articulately, understandably, expressively, correctly, accurately, properly, proficiently, effectively, artistically, poetically; grammatically: Henry will make a good announcer because he speaks well. 4 comfortably, luxuriously, prosperously, extravagantly, showily, pretentiously, ostentatiously, sumptuously, grandly, opulently: How can Rita live so well with no visible income? Living well is the best revenge. 5 graciously, kindly, highly, favourably, glowingly, approvingly, warmly, genially, cordially, amiably, kind-heartedly, warm-heartedly, affectionately, lovingly: Rudolph has always spoken well of you, Aileen. 6 skilfully, expertly, adeptly, proficiently, ably: Does Anne play well enough to compete professionally? Paul sings well. 7 far, by a long way, immeasurably, (very) much; far and away, definitely, positively, obviously, clearly, plainly, manifestly, evidently, unquestionably, decidedly, beyond (the shadow of a) doubt, Colloq by a long chalk: Keep well away from the fuel tank before lighting that cigarette. She is well beyond the beginner stage. This painting is well worth what you paid. 8 good-naturedly, equably, coolly, serenely, calmly, soberly, unexcitedly, sedately: Burt took the bad news about his car very well. 9 likely, probably, in all probability, doubtlessly, without doubt, not unexpectedly, indeed: He might well say he needs no help. 10 easily, without difficulty: Though he gave her the money, he could not well spare it. 11 completely, entirely, wholly: Before she could well finish her sentence, he was out of the house. 12 thoroughly (cooked), (cooked) through and through, completely (cooked): He likes his roast beef well done. 13 intimately, closely, familiarly, personally; thoroughly, profoundly, soundly, fully: Do you know Boris well? I learnt my lesson well. 14 fairly, justly, suitably, properly, adequately, reasonably, fully, generously, amply: James is well paid for his work. 15 happily, mercifully, fortunately, luckily: After the divorce, both said they were well rid of each other. --adj. 16 healthy, fit, hale, robust, vigorous, hearty, in fine or good fettle, Colloq in good shape: Wendy felt really well after her holiday. 17 satisfactory, pleasing, agreeable, good, right, all right, fine, proper, OK or okay: When he phoned the office, they told him all was well.
well-informed adj. knowledgeable, learned, well-read, well-versed, well-educated, literate, educated, Colloq in the know, wise, US vibrating on the right frequency, Slang hip or hep: With access to all the media, what excuse have you for not being well-informed?
wet adj. 1 moist, moistened, damp, dampened, soaked, soaking, sopping, wringing, dripping, sodden, soppy, saturated, drenched: During the rainy season, the ground is far too wet for planting. 2 rainy, raining, teeming, pouring, drizzling, showery: We have had a very wet spring this year. 3 feeble, weak, irresolute, effet, namby-pamby, foolish, ineffectual, ineffective, spineless, timorous, cowardly: She considered some of her colleagues too wet to take the tough action needed. --n. 4 moisture, water, wetness, dampness, damp, humidity, liquid: The wet stood out on his forehead. 5 rain, wetness, mist, dew, fog, damp, humidity: Come in out of the wet, and warm yourself by the fire. 6 milksop, softie or softy, lightweight, Colloq drip, loser, Brit weed, Slang wimp, US weak sister: Why is he such a wet about standing up for his rights? wheedle v. coax, cajole, inveigle, charm, beguile, persuade, talk; butter up; Colloq con, sweet-talk: Irena always managed to wheedle someone into taking her dancing.
whirlwind n. 1 waterspout, dust devil, cyclone, typhoon, anticyclone, hurricane, extra-tropical cyclone, tropical cyclone, Nontechnical tornado, Nautical white squall, Australian willy-willy, Colloq US whirly: A whole row of houses was destroyed in the whirlwind. --adj. 2 speedy, quick, swift, sudden, precipitous, lightning, headlong, hasty, rash, impetuous: It was one of those whirlwind romances that last till the wind dies down.
wholehearted adj. devoted, dedicated, committed, earnest, sincere, unqualified, unmitigated, unreserved, complete, entire, unstinting, real, true, genuine, hearty, heartfelt, serious, enthusiastic, zealous, warm, fervent, ardent, spirited, eager, energetic: Once I agree to help, you can rely on my wholehearted support.
width n. 1 breadth, wideness, compass, broadness, span; diameter, calibre, bore; measure; Nautical beam: What is the standard width of railway track in this country? The width of the cannon-ball is three inches. 2 reach, scope, range, breadth, extent, extensiveness: There is an impressive width of choice at the restaurant.
willingly adv. readily, happily, contentedly, gladly, cheerfully, amenably, agreeably, freely, passively, docilely, of (one's) own accord or free will, on (one's) own, ungrudgingly, by choice, voluntarily, unhesitatingly, nothing loath, eagerly, enthusiastically, zealously, avidly, Colloq at the drop of a hat: We did not coerce him in any way - he went along quite willingly. You can rely on Hubert to give willingly and generously to support any good cause.
windfall n. bonanza, godsend, stroke of (good) fortune, serendipitous find, boon, piece of (good) luck, jackpot, (lucky) strike: The sale of the house provided a windfall that saved them from imminent bankruptcy.
wise adj. 1 sage, sagacious, judicious, reasonable, commonsensical, prudent, sensible, insightful, sapient, understanding, rational, sound, clear-sighted, clear-headed, discerning, perspicacious, perspicuous, percipient, perceptive, intelligent, acute, astute, sharp, shrewd, crafty, clever, bright, quick-witted, smart, brilliant, long-headed, Colloq brainy: Among the wisest of men were Solomon, Confucius, Buddha, and, perhaps, Aristotle. 2 knowledgeable, learned, enlightened, informed, erudite; (well-)educated, knowing, well-read, well-versed, lettered, scholarly: We saw to it that they escaped, and the police were none the wiser. Wise heads prevailed at the college on what constituted worthwhile research. 3 well-advised, advisable, judicious, sensible, expedient, reasonable, strategic, tactful, tactical, prudent, politic, discreet, diplomatic, well-thought-out, well-considered, proper, fitting, appropriate, meet: Do you think it wise to punish the child so severely? 4 put wise (to). inform or advise or warn (of or about): If you must know how he found out, it was Myrna who put him wise. Did she also put him wise to where the money is hidden? 5 wise to. aware or knowledgeable or informed of or about, sensitive to, on to or onto, Colloq in the know about: You are wrong if you think she isn't wise to your little tricks. Get wise to what's going on, Man. --v. 6 wise up (to). become informed or aware (of or about), wake up (to), Colloq get wise (to) or in the know (about): If Cooley doesn't wise up, he'll be in deep trouble. Was it you who wised Meg up to the fact that Tom no longer cares?
witch n. 1 sorceress, enchantress, magician, sibyl, pythoness; warlock: The witches prophesied that Macbeth would be king. 2 hag, fury, battleaxe, crone, gorgon, Medusa, ogress, Xanthippe, shrew, virago, harridan, fishwife, termagant, Archaic beldam or beldame, Offensive old bag, bitch: How could you stand living with the old witch for so many years?
wizened adj. wrinkled, shrunken, shrivelled (up), withered, gnarled, dried up, wilted, faded, wasted: The wizened old crone is his grandmother.
word n. 1 (little) talk, (brief) conversation, chat, discussion, consultation, dialogue, huddle, parley, tte--tte, chit-chat, confabulation, conference, interview, Colloq powwow, confab: Could I have a word with you before you leave for the day? 2 news, intelligence, information, facts, data, report, story, tidings, account, communiqu, bulletin, dispatch or despatch, advice, message, Colloq low-down, Slang info, dope, Brit gen, US poop: Have you had any word about the situation in the Middle East? 3 name, term, designation, locution, appellation, expression, phrase: What is the word for 'write' in Greek? 4 promise, pledge, vow, oath, (solemn) word of honour, undertaking, assurance, warrant, guarantee or guaranty, warranty: You have my word that I won't mention this to anyone. 5 utterance, expression, declaration, statement: Let me give you a word of warning, my friend. 6 suggestion, hint, scintilla, bit: I promise that I won't breathe a word of this to anyone. 7 command, order, signal, direction, instruction, Colloq US high sign: I shall not press the red button till you give the word. 8 in a word. succinctly, briefly, in brief, in a few words, concisely, in short, in summary, in sum, not to mince words, to make a long story short, when all is said and done, in the final analysis, not to beat about the bush, Colloq in a nutshell: His bedside manner was, in a word, menacing. 9 words. a quarrel, dispute, argument, unpleasantness: Paul and Kitty had words and are not on speaking terms. b lyrics, book, libretto, text: Did Irving Berlin write the words as well as the music to his songs? --v. 10 put (forth), say, couch, express, phrase, utter, state, term, style, set forth: Had you worded your complaint in politer language, you might have spared yourself a punch in the eye.
worldly adv. 1 mundane, earthly, terrestrial, temporal, physical, carnal, fleshly, corporeal, human; lay, non-spiritual, non-religious, civic, secular, profane: Theo indulged in worldly pleasures in the fleshpots of the continent. Veronica put aside worldly things and took the veil. 2 urbane, suave, sophisticated, cosmopolitan, worldly-wise, Slang with it, hip, cool: Behind that worldly manner is the heart of a peasant.
worthwhile adj. 1 profitable, justifiable, productive, gainful, rewarding, fruitful, cost-effective, remunerative: Would it be worthwhile to buy up that land as a long-term investment? 2 useful, valuable, good, helpful, beneficial, worthy, beneficent, desirable, exemplary, matchless, honourable, upright, sterling, irreproachable: Brian Smith is one of the most worthwhile people I met at university.
wrestle v. battle, fight, struggle, tussle, strive: After thirty years Garth wrestled his way to the top in the company.
writing n. 1 handwriting, longhand, penmanship, script, calligraphy or chirography, scribble: I sometimes have trouble reading your writing. 2 Sometimes, writings. (literary) work(s), composition, theme, book, article, critique, criticism, review, editorial, column, expos, essay, poetry, poem, novel, non-fiction, fiction, document, letter, correspondence, publication, Chiefly Brit journalism leading article or leader, Chiefly US journalism op-ed article: Her writing has been widely published. Poe's writings are collected in this book. 3 literature, belles-lettres, letters: I don't agree that British writing has declined since 1900.
yearn v. long, pine, ache, hanker, itch, hunger, thirst, crave, have a craving, desire, wish, want, fancy, prefer: I yearn to see the green-clad hills of home once more, Before my vessel bears me from this mortal shore.
youth n. 1 childhood, boyhood, girlhood, young manhood, young womanhood, prepubescence, pubescence, adolescence, salad days; immaturity, minority: In our youth we do many foolish things we might later regret. 2 child, youngster, schoolchild, teenager, teen, minor, juvenile, adolescent; boy, schoolboy, stripling, young boy or man, lad, laddie, whippersnapper; girl, lass, lassie, schoolgirl, maid, maiden, Literary damsel, demoiselle, mademoiselle, Colloq kid, (little) shaver, US and Canadian tad, Slang teeny-bopper, Brit sprog: As youths, they used to spend time at rock concerts. 3 children, youngsters, juveniles, adolescents, young people, young, Colloq kids: The youth of today have little respect for their elders.
zero n. 1 nil, null, nothing, nought or naught, aught, cipher, Cricket duck, Colloq nix, US goose-egg, nada, niente, Slang Brit (sweet) Fanny Adams or FA, bugger-all, US zilch: Temperatures have remained below zero all day. The visiting team won three games, we won zero. 2 (rock) bottom, nadir: On a scale of one to ten, she is a zero. 3 nobody, nothing, nonentity, Slang US nebbish, bupkis: That fellow she married is a real zero. --v. 4 zero in on. focus on, pinpoint, fix on, home in on, concentrate on,bring to bear on: We zeroed in on the problem and then rapidly found the answer.