abbreviated adj. skimpy, brief, revealing: The dancers' abbreviated costumes shocked some members of the audience.
abet v. 1 encourage, urge, instigate, incite, provoke, egg on, prod, goad; aid, help, assist: The jury found that his wife had abetted him in the murder. 2 countenance, approve (of), support, endorse, second, sanction, condone; further, advance, promote, uphold: By failing to inform on the terrorists, the neighbours abetted the bombing.
abide v. 1 stand, endure, suffer, submit to, bear, put up with, accept, tolerate, brook: How can you abide the company of such a fool? 2 live, stay, reside, dwell, sojourn: Local people believe that the rain god abides in these mountains. 3 remain, stay, continue, tarry; linger, rest: He'll abide in my care till he can walk again. 4 abide by. consent to, agree to, comply with, observe, acknowledge, obey, follow, submit to, conform to, keep to, remain true to, stand firm by, adhere to, hold to: You must abide by the rules of the club if you become a member.
able adj. 1 capable, qualified, competent, proficient: I feel quite able to take care of myself, thank you. He is an able tennis player. 2 talented, clever, skilled, masterful, masterly; adept, skilful, gifted, superior, expert, accomplished: There is no doubt that Wellington was a very able general.
abolish v. eliminate, end, put an end to, terminate, destroy, annihilate, annul, void, make void, demolish, do away with, nullify, repeal, cancel, obliterate, liquidate, destroy, stamp out, quash, extinguish, erase, delete, expunge; eradicate, extirpate, deracinate, uproot: The best way to abolish folly is to spread wisdom. Prohibition in the US was abolished in 1933.
abound v. 1 prevail, thrive, flourish: Disease abounds among the undernourished peoples of Africa. 2 abound in. be crowded or packed or jammed with, be abundant or rich in, proliferate (in or with): The ship abounds in conveniences. 3 abound with. teem or swarm or throng with, be filled or infested with, overflow with: The ship abounds with rats.
above-board adv. 1 openly, candidly, freely, publicly, frankly, straightforwardly, plainly, for all to see, out in the open, in the open: Donald has always dealt completely above-board with everyone. --adj. 2 open, candid, frank, straight, direct, honourable, straightforward, forthright, guileless, undeceiving, artless, ingenuous, undeceptive, undeceitful, straight from the shoulder; honest, genuine: The company's dealings have always been above-board.
abrupt adj. 1 sudden, hasty, quick, precipitate, snappy; unexpected, unannounced, unplanned, unforeseen, unanticipated: The general's abrupt departure has been linked with the disappearance of a great deal of money. 2 precipitous, steep, sheer, sudden: From the ridge there is an abrupt drop of 1000 metres into the valley. 3 curt, short, brusque, blunt, bluff, gruff, uncivil, rude, discourteous, impolite, unceremonious, snappish: My bank manager gave me an abrupt reply when I asked for an increased overdraft.
absolute adj. 1 perfect, complete, total, finished, thorough, through-and-through, consummate, flawless, faultless, unadulterated, pure, unmixed, unalloyed, undiluted; rank: Alan behaved like an absolute gentleman. 2 complete, outright, downright, genuine, real, pure, out-and-out, transparent, unmitigated, categorical, unqualified, unconditional, utter, veritable, unconditioned: Peace is an absolute requirement for prosperity. 3 unrestricted, unrestrained, unconstrained, unlimited, unmitigated, arbitrary, despotic, dictatorial, totalitarian, supreme, almighty, arbitrary, autocratic, tyrannical: The days of absolute monarchy are numbered. 4 positive, certain, sure, unambiguous, unquestionable, authoritative, verifiable, uncompromised: Few intelligent people would claim absolute knowledge of anything.
abstract adj. 1 theoretical, unapplied, notional, ideational, conceptual, metaphysical, unpractical, intellectual: It is difficult to capture abstract ideas on paper. 2 non-representational, symbolic, non-realistic: Museums began buying abstract art in the 1930s. --n. 3 summary, epitome, synopsis, essence, digest, condensation, survey, conspectus, extract; outline, prcis, rsum: By reading the abstracts, you can determine which articles merit reading in full. --v. 4 epitomize, abbreviate, digest, summarize, condense, shorten, abridge, cut, cut down, US synopsize: The service abstracts articles that appear in scientific journals.
abundant adj. 1 plentiful, overflowing, ample, copious, over-sufficient, superabundant, plenteous, profuse, inexhaustible, replete, bountiful, bounteous: The abundant rainfall fills the reservoirs every day. 2 abounding (in), full (of), rich (in), luxuriant, lavish: We know a stream that is abundant in trout. The abundant vegetation of the rain forest is an ecological wonder.
abysmal adj. 1 awful, appalling, dreadful, terrible, profound: The government of Nero presented a spectacle of abysmal degradation. 2 abyssal, bottomless, profound, unfathomable, unfathomed: The abysmal depths have been plumbed in the diving bell.
accept v. 1 receive, take, allow, permit: Sorry, but we cannot accept any more applications. 2 accede (to), agree (to), assent (to), consent (to), acknowledge, admit, allow, recognize: We accept your request for a hearing. 3 assume, undertake, take on or up, agree to bear: I'll accept the responsibility for replying. 4 reconcile oneself to, suffer, undergo, experience, stand, withstand, stomach, endure, bear, resign oneself to, brook, allow, tolerate, take: I think I have accepted enough criticism for one day.
accident n. 1 mishap, misfortune, mischance, misadventure, blunder, mistake; casualty, disaster, catastrophe, calamity: A high percentage of the road accidents were caused by drunken drivers. 2 chance, fortune, luck, fortuity, fluke; serendipity: I came across the gold ring by accident, when cleaning out a disused cupboard. 3 non-essential, accessory or accessary, extra, addition: Melancholy is an almost inseparable accident of old age.
accommodation n. 1 adaptation, adjustment, modification, change, alteration, conformation, conformity: Her skilful accommodation to her boss's demands kept the peace in the office. 2 settlement, treaty, compromise: Negotiations were now opened for an accommodation between the belligerents. 3 convenience, favour: Would you take the mail to the post office as an accommodation to me? 4 lodging(s), room(s), quarters, shelter, housing; facility, premises, Brit digs, US accommodations: We were able to arrange for accommodation at the hotel. Have you seen our new office accommodation? 5 loan, (financial) assistance or aid; grant, grant-in-aid: The man was able to obtain an accommodation from his brother-in-law.
accomplished adj. consummate, perfect, expert, adept, skilful, proficient, practised, gifted, talented, skilled, professional: Did you know that she is also an accomplished flautist?
account v. 1 account for. explain, give a reason for, give or render a reckoning for, answer for, justify, reckon for: The treasurer has been able to account for every penny of expense. His desire to conceal his background accounts for his secrecy. --n. 2 calculation, accounting, reckoning, computation, (financial) statement; enumeration: The accounts show that the company has ample funds in reserve. Williams hasn't submitted his expense account for the trip. 3 interest, profit, advantage, benefit, favour; sake: Nigel turned his convalescence to good account by writing a best seller. Don't read the book on my account. 4 explanation, statement, description, report, recital, narrative, history, chronicle: The defendant gave a credible account of his whereabouts at the time of the crime. 5 consideration, use, worth, importance, consequence, note, value, merit; standing, significance, estimation, esteem: The committee decided that length of service is of some account in determining retirement pensions. 6 story, narration, narrative, report, tale, relation, description: Alice's account of the rabbit wearing a waistcoat is unbelievable. 7 take into account or take account of. notice, take note of, consider, take into consideration, allow for: In passing sentence, the judge took into account the child's poverty and the fact that it was Christmas time.
accumulation n. 1 collecting, amassing, gathering, piling or aggregation, heaping up: One effect of the strike was the accumulation of rubbish in the streets. 2 growth, increase, build-up: The accumulation of wealth has never proved a valid purpose in life. 3 heap, pile, mass, collection, hoard, store, stockpile, stock, aggregation; assemblage: Our gardener made sure that there was an ample accumulation of compost.
accuse v. 1 accuse (of or with). blame, censure, hold responsible (for), charge (with), denounce (for), point the finger (at), cite, call to account: She accused the Knave of Hearts of lying. 2 accuse (of or with). charge, indict, impeach, arraign, incriminate; attribute, impute: The prisoner is accused of assault, criminal damage, and disorderly conduct.
achieve v. 1 accomplish, carry out, execute, succeed in, complete, fulfil, bring off or about; realize, effect: When the fund reaches its goal, we shall have achieved our purpose. 2 accomplish, attain, reach, gain, get, acquire, win, obtain: She achieved her ends by cheating and conniving.
acme n. peak, apex, top, summit, pinnacle, zenith; climax, culmination: Roger has reached the acme of perfection as a diamond-cutter.
acquire v. get, obtain, gain, win, earn, procure, secure, come by or into; receive, come into possession of; buy, purchase: He acquired great wealth by marrying rich old dying widows.
activate v. move, actuate, set in motion, get started, energize, get or set going, start, initiate, switch or turn on, trigger; motivate, rouse, arouse, prompt, stimulate, stir, mobilize, animate, impel, galvanize, Colloq US light a fire under: The sensor in the pavement activates the traffic signal. Her enthusiasm activated him to go into business for himself.
actually adv. really, in reality, in fact, in actuality, in point of fact, in truth, absolutely, as a matter of fact, indeed, truly, literally: The interest rates actually charged by banks may vary from those quoted publicly.
adaptation n. 1 fitting, suiting, modifying, adjusting, conversion: In 1831 electricity was ripe for adaptation to practical purposes. 2 modification, change, adjustment, accommodation, reworking, customization, alteration: She was responsible for the adaptation of her short story to a television play.
address n. 1 speech, talk, discourse, oration, lecture; sermon: The Prime Minister's address to the nation was broadcast last night. 2 location, whereabouts: She couldn't write to me because she didn't have my address. --v. 3 speak or talk to; deliver or give a speech to; lecture: After the coup, the general addressed the crowd in the square. 4 greet, hail, accost, approach: She was addressing strangers in the street to ask their views on women's rights. 5 address oneself to. devote or direct or apply oneself to: After the holidays, I again addressed myself to studying for examinations.
adjust v. 1 set right, arrange, settle, harmonize, reconcile, resolve, set or put to rights; arbitrate, mediate; redress, rectify, correct, patch up: Four were named on each side to adjust their differences. 2 change, alter, modify, regulate, set: After he adjusted the pendulum, the clock kept good time. 3 adapt (to), accommodate (oneself) (to), accustom (oneself) (to); get used (to), acclimatize or acclimate (to), reconcile (oneself) (to): If she travels a distance east or west, it takes her a few days to adjust to the local time. Army life was very different, but I was able to adjust quickly. 4 put in order, arrange, rearrange, close or fasten or zip or button (up): She adjusted the children's coats and did up their shoes.
admirable adj. wonderful, awe-inspiring, excellent, estimable, splendid, marvellous, superior, first-rate, first-class, of the first water, great, fine, Colloq top-drawer, ripsnorting, A-1, Brit smashing, magic: His performance in Harper's new play is admirable.
admission n. 1 access, admittance, entre, entry: The special card gives me admission to the rare book room of the library. 2 reception, acceptance, appointment, institution, induction, installation, investiture: The committee has at last approved the admission of women into the society. 3 acknowledging, acknowledgement or acknowledgment, allowing, allowance, admitting, admittance, conceding, concession: The court refuses to consider the admission of testimony taken under duress. 4 acknowledgement, confession, concession, profession, declaration, disclosure, affirmation, concession, divulgence or divulgement, revelation: The police were able to extract an admission of guilt from the suspect. 5 ticket, (entry or entrance) fee, tariff: Admission is free for senior citizens.
adopt v. 1 take (in), accept, take or accept as one's own: Carol and her husband have adopted two children. 2 take, take up or on or over, embrace, espouse; arrogate, appropriate: All Hugh's ideas are adopted from others - he's never had one of his own.
adulterate v. falsify, corrupt, alloy, debase, water (down), weaken, dilute, bastardize, contaminate, pollute, taint, Colloq doctor; Slang US cut: Adulterated rape seed oil was found to have caused the deaths of more than 600 people.
adventure n. 1 exploit, escapade, danger, peril; affair, undertaking, feat, deed; experience, incident, event, occurrence, happening, episode: We shared many wartime adventures. 2 speculation, hazard, chance, risk, venture, enterprise: I lost a fortune in some of his financial adventures. --v. 3 venture, hazard, risk, imperil, endanger, jeopardize, threaten: Would you adventure your pension money in such a scheme? 4 dare, wager, bet, gamble, stake, try one's luck, Brit punt: She adventured a whole week's salary on the pools.
advice n. 1 counsel, guidance, recommendation, suggestion, opinion, view; warning, admonition, Technical parnesis: His solicitor's advice is to say nothing. 2 information, news, intelligence, notice, notification; communication: Advice has reached the police that a shipment of arms will leave Dover tonight.
advisory adj. 1 consultive, consultative, counselling, hortatory, monitory, admonitory, Technical parnetic(al): Our firm has been engaged in an advisory capacity on the privatization of the utility companies. --n. 2 bulletin, notice, warning, admonition, prediction: The Weather Office has issued a storm advisory for the weekend.
affair n. 1 matter, topic, issue; business, concern, interest, undertaking, activity: These are affairs of state and require the approval of a minister. 2 concern, business, Slang US beeswax: Who wiped the fingerprints off the weapon is none of your affair. 3 event, business, occurrence, happening, proceeding, incident, operation: Last night's farewell party was truly a dull affair. 4 Also, affaire. love affair, amour, romance, intrigue, fling, liaison, relationship, affaire d'amour, affaire de coeur: Lady Constance is having an affair with the gamekeeper.
affected adj. 1 unnatural, artificial, specious, stilted, stiff, studied, awkward, non-natural, contrived, mannered: Dryden found Shakespeare's style stiff and affected. 2 pretended, simulated, hollow, assumed, feigned, fake, faked, false, counterfeit, insincere, spurious, sham, bogus, Colloq phoney or US also phony: The heir's affected grief concealed his secret exultation. 3 pretentious, pompous, high-sounding, mincing, niminy-piminy, Colloq la-di-da orlah-di-dah or la-de-da: Oliver's affected airs were enough to make his classmates detest him. 4 attacked, seized, afflicted, stricken, gripped, touched; diseased, laid hold of: Her affected lungs never quite recovered. 5 afflicted, moved, touched, stirred, distressed, troubled, upset, hurt; influenced, swayed, impressed, struck, played or worked or acted upon: Many affected theatre-goers enjoyed her performances.
affinity n. 1 relationship, kinship, closeness, alliance, connection or Brit connexion; sympathy, rapport: He felt an affinity with other redheaded people. 2 friendliness, fondness, liking, leaning, bent, inclination, taste, partiality, attractiveness, attraction: I have an affinity for the sea.
afoul adv. afoul of. entangled with, in trouble with, in conflict with, at odds with: Barbara fell afoul of the new tax regulations.
agency n. means, medium, instrumentality; intervention, intercession, action, intermediation; operation, mechanism, force, power, activity, working(s), energy: Pollen is carried from flower to flower by the agency of certain insects.
aggressive adj. 1 combative, warlike, martial, belligerent, bellicose, pugnacious, quarrelsome, disputatious, litigious; hostile, unfriendly: The Germanic tribes were known to the Romans as aggressive and hardened warriors. 2 forward, assertive, forceful, bold, Colloq pushy: Dennis's aggressive nature may yet make him a good salesman.
agitated adj. moved, stirred (up), shaken (up), rattled, disturbed, upset, nervous, perturbed, jittery, jumpy, uneasy, ill at ease, fidgety, disquieted, discomfited, ruffled, flustered, unsettled, unnerved, wrought up, discomposed, disconcerted, aroused, roused, excited, Colloq discombobulated: The sheriff was in a very agitated state about the mob forming outside the jail.
agonizing adj. painful, distressful, distressing, harrowing, torturous, racking, excruciating, tortured, tormented: We went through an agonizing reappraisal of our policy on immigration.
agreement n. 1 understanding, covenant, treaty, pact, accord, compact, settlement, concordat; contract, bargain, Colloq deal: They drew up a ten-year agreement to be signed at the summit in Geneva. 2 concord, harmony, compatibility, unity, concurrence, unanimity: Agreement in error is far worse than division for the sake of truth.
ail v. 1 trouble, afflict, affect, bother, distress, upset, worry, make ill or sick, pain, hurt: I cannot imagine what ails him, and the doctor can find nothing wrong. 2 suffer, be or feel ill or poorly or unwell or indisposed, US be sick: Granny has been ailing lately.
air n. 1 atmosphere, ambience, aura, climate, feeling, sense, mood, quality: This restaurant has a delightful air about it. 2 breeze, zephyr, current, draught; breath, puff, wind: Light airs sprang up from the south. 3 manner, style, appearance, aura, feeling, bearing, quality, flavour: Louis has a lugubrious air about him. 4 melody, tune, song, music: She was humming airs from some Italian opera. 5 airs. pretension, pretence, show, affectedness; haughtiness, hauteur, arrogance, superiority, superciliousness: He puts on such airs since he got his knighthood. --v. 6 ventilate, freshen, refresh, aerate: The chambermaid is airing the room, so you can't go in now. 7 show off, parade, display, exhibit; publish, broadcast, circulate, publicize, make public or known, reveal, expose, disclose, divulge, tell, express, declare: Once again Andrew is airing his views on modern art.
alcoholic adj. 1 intoxicating, inebriating: His doctor has forbidden him any alcoholic beverage. --n. 2 drunkard, drunk, dipsomaniac, sot, toper, drinker, winebibber, serious or problem drinker, tippler, Colloq barfly, soak, Slang boozer, alchy or alkie or alky, dipso, stew, rummy, US and Canadian lush, booze-hound, wino: The community runs a centre for rehabilitating alcoholics.
alienate v. Usually, alienate from. disabuse (of or from), wean away (from), detach (from), distance (from): Gradually the villagers were alienated from their old animistic beliefs.
allege v. declare, aver, state, assert, charge, affirm, avow, asseverate, depose, say: The guard alleged that he had caught the boy climbing in a basement window.
allotment n. 1 share, apportionment, ration, portion, quota, allowance, measure: Each prisoner was given a daily allotment of four ounces of black bread and a cup of water. 2 garden plot, kitchen garden, patch, tract, plot, Brit market garden, US truck garden: If I don't answer the phone, it's because I am digging my allotment.
ally n. 1 comrade, confederate, collaborator, coadjutor; accessory, accomplice; associate, partner, friend: I had hoped to have you as an ally in my proposal for reorganization. The Allies finally defeated the Nazi war machine in 1945. --v. 2 league, combine, unite, join (up), team (up), side, band together, associate, affiliate, collaborate, confederate: In their attempt at a take-over of our company, the raiders have allied themselves with two banks. We shall ally the Romans to us and conquer the territory.
aloof adv. 1 apart, away, at a distance, separate; at arm's length:We invited Martha to join us but she preferred to remain aloof. --adj. 2 private, reticent, reserved, withdrawn, haughty, supercilious, standoffish, formal, unsociable, unsocial; distant, remote: Deirdre is quite an aloof sort of person - not what you would call a 'mixer'. 3 standoffish, distant, remote, cool, chilly, unresponsive, unfriendly, antisocial, unapproachable; unsympathetic, apathetic, indifferent, undemonstrative: Roger keeps himself aloof from the needs of those less fortunate than he is.
alternation n. rotation, succession; exchange, interchange: In a temperate climate there is the advantage of the alternation of the seasons.
always adv. 1 at all times, again and again, on all occasions, every or each time, each and every time, without exception, unexceptionally; often, many times, usually: He that indulges hope will always be disappointed. I have always made coffee this way and see no reason for changing. 2 forever, continually, ever, perpetually; unceasingly, unendingly, eternally, evermore, ever after, everlastingly, till the end of time, in perpetuity: You are a fool, Mike, and you will always be a fool. 3 in any case, as a last resort: You could always refuse to pay.
amass v. accumulate, mass, pile or heap or rack up, collect, gather (together), assemble, aggregate, cumulate, stock or store up, hoard, set aside: How many points have you amassed? Owing to the bountiful harvest, the farmers amassed huge amounts of grain.
amazing adj. astonishing, astounding, surprising, wonderful, remarkable, extraordinary, marvellous, fabulous, stunning, dazzling, staggering, awesome: The Cossacks put on an amazing display of horsemanship.
ambitious adj. 1 aspiring, hopeful; enthusiastic: My son, I am just as ambitious for you as you are for yourself. 2 energetic, enterprising, vigorous, zealous, enthusiastic, eager: We prefer ambitious young people to those who are seeking a sinecure. 3 greedy, avaricious, overzealous, overambitious, Colloq pushy, yuppy: Howard is a trifle too ambitious, expecting to be department head after only one year.
amends n. make amends. compensate, pay, repay, make reparation or restitution, recompense, redress, remedy, requite: How can the bus-driver ever make amends for the loss of a beloved kitten? amiable adj. friendly, well-disposed, kindly, kind, amicable, agreeable, congenial, genial, warm, winsome, winning, affable, agreeable, pleasant, obliging, tractable, approachable, benign, good-natured, good-hearted, kind-hearted; affectionate: Melissa is well named for her sweet and amiable disposition.
among prep. 1 amongst, amid, amidst, mid, in the midst or middle or centre of, surrounded by: Please take a seat among the people over there. We lay down among the flowers. 2 among, to each or all (of): The examination booklets were passed out among the students.
amply adv. 1 widely, broadly, extensively, greatly, expansively: This fabric stretches amply enough to fit over the couch. 2 to a great extent, largely, fully, abundantly: My confidence in her was amply recompensed by her success. 3 abundantly, fully, copiously: The prophecy was amply fulfilled. 4 fully, well, liberally, unstintingly, generously, richly, substantially, lavishly; sufficiently: He has been amply paid for his work.
anachronism n. misdate, misdating, misapplication; antedate, antedating, prochronism; postdate, postdating, parachronism: The poster showing Cleopatra smoking a cigarette is an anachronism - a prochronism, to be specific.
anchor n. 1 mooring: The ship rode at anchor in the harbour. 2 stability, security, mainstay, support, stabilizer, holdfast, sheet anchor: Marie is an anchor to windward for George, who tends to be a bit irresponsible. --v. 3 attach, affix, secure, moor, fix, fasten; pin, rivet, glue: You must anchor the foundation before adding the walls. She remained anchored to the spot, refusing to move.
angle v. angle for. fish for; look for, seek, be after, try for, hunt for: On holiday we went angling for perch. Fran is angling for compliments on her new dress.
animate v. 1 activate, enliven, invigorate, stimulate, inspirit, excite, stir, vitalize, spark, vivify, revitalize, breathe life into, innervate: A little enthusiasm would have animated their dull relationship. 2 inspire, inspirit, stimulate, actuate, move, motivate, incite, rouse, arouse, excite, fire (up), encourage, energize, vitalize, spur (on or onwards): He spent the few minutes before the battle in animating his soldiers. --adj. 3 lively, spirited, vivacious, animated, quick: A courser more animate of eye, Of form more faultless never had been seen. 4 alive, moving, breathing, Archaic quick: Although they move, plants are not considered to be animate.
announcement n. 1 declaration, pronouncement, proclamation, statement: Ladies and gentlemen, I wish to make an announcement. 2 notification, notice, word: We received an announcement of the wedding but no invitation. 3 commercial, advertisement, advert, ad, spot: The window was filled with announcements of houses for sale. 4 report, bulletin, communiqu, disclosure: An announcement has just been received from the fire-fighters at the scene.
answer n. 1 reply, response; rejoinder, retort, riposte, Colloq comeback: The boy's answer is unprintable. 2 Law defence, counter-statement, plea, explanation; Technical declaration, plea, replication, rejoinder, surrejoinder, rebutter or rebuttal, surrebutter or surrebuttal: Her answer to the charge was 'Not Guilty'. 3 solution, explanation: Ten points were taken off because I had the wrong answer to question three. --v. 4 reply, respond; retort, rejoin, riposte: When I ask you a question, I expect you to answer. 5 satisfy, fulfil, suffice for, meet, suit, serve, fit, fill, conform to, correlate with: The bequest answered my needs for the moment. 6 answer back. talk back (to): How dare you answer your father back! 7 answer for. a be accountable or responsible or answerable for, be to blame for; take or undertake responsibility for; sponsor, support, guarantee: I answer alone to Allah for my motives. So shall my righteousness answer for me. b make amends for, atone for, suffer the consequences of: Caesar was ambitious and he answered for it with his life. c take or accept the blame for: Andy shouldn't have to answer for his brother's shortcomings.
anticipation n. 1 expectation, expectancy; hope: In anticipation of the arrival of Father Christmas, we hung up our stockings. 2 foreknowledge, precognition; intuition, presentiment, feeling; foreboding, apprehension: His anticipation of the solar eclipse by a week established him as the foremost scientist of his day.
anxiety n. 1 solicitude, concern, uneasiness, disquiet, nervousness, worry, dread, angst, apprehension, foreboding: Philip began to feel genuine anxiety over Tanya's safety. 2 appetite, hunger, thirst, desire, eagerness, longing, ache, concern: It is every person's anxiety to obtain for himself the inestimable pearl of genuine knowledge.
apologetic adj. regretful, sorry, contrite, remorseful, penitent, rueful, repentant, conscience-stricken: The lad was most apologetic for having broken the window.
apparel n. clothing, attire, clothes, dress, raiment, garments, Colloq gear, rags, glad rags, duds, Slang US threads: The police found various items of apparel strewn about the flat.
appear v. 1 come forth, become visible or manifest, put in an appearance, materialize, surface, emerge, rise, arise, come up, enter (into) the picture, show oneself, turn up, arrive, come, Colloq crop or show up; Slang show: Suddenly, a vision appeared before me. His wife appeared after an absence of ten years. 2 perform, act, play, take the role or part of: She has appeared as Roxanne in dozens of productions of Cyrano de Bergerac . 3 occur, happen, come up, be included, figure, arrive: That four-letter word does not appear in written form till the 20th century. 4 seem, be clear or evident or plain or manifest; look: It appears that the money was taken while the manager was at lunch. 5 be published, come out, become available: The next issue will appear in March.
applause n. clapping, acclamation, acclaim, clat; cheering, cheers; approval, commendation, approbation, praise, kudos, plaudit(s): At the curtain there was applause from the audience.
appoint v. 1 fix, set, settle, determine, ordain, authorize, establish, destine, arrange, assign, allot, prescribe, decree: The time appointed for the execution has been delayed. 2 name, designate, nominate, elect; assign, delegate, commission, deputize; select, choose: I was delighted to have been appointed as chairman. 3 equip, fit out, furnish, decorate: They live comfortably in a well-appointed home in the suburbs.
apprentice n. 1 novice, tiro or tyro, learner, starter, beginner, greenhorn, Colloq US rookie: Lever served as an apprentice in the soap factory. --v. 2 indenture, contract, bind: Cartwright was apprenticed to a carpenter before becoming a journeyman cabinet-maker.
approval n. sanction, approbation, blessing, consent, agreement, concurrence; endorsement, acceptance, imprimatur, affirmation, clat, confirmation, mandate, authorization; licence, leave, permission, rubber stamp, Colloq OK, okay, go-ahead, green light: I don't think that the plan will meet with the committee's approval. We gave our approval to proceed.
aptitude n. 1 fitness, suitability, appropriateness, relevance, applicability, suitableness, aptness: One need only look at an albatross in the air to appreciate its aptitude for flight. 2 tendency, propensity, disposition, predilection, bent, proclivity; talent, gift, ability, capability, facility, faculty, flair: Helen displays a natural aptitude for the violin. 3 intelligence, quick-wittedness, intellect; capacity, aptness: The aptitude of that new student sets her apart from the others in the class.
ardour n. eagerness, desire, zeal, fervency, burning desire, keenness, fervour, passion, heat, warmth; enthusiasm: Bernadette has supported the cause with great ardour.
argument n. 1 debate, dispute, disagreement, quarrel, controversy, polemic, wrangle, squabble, tiff, spat, altercation; conflict, fight, fracas, affray, fray, Donnybrook, feud, Colloq row, falling-out, scrap, barney: The argument was about who had invented the wheel. The argument spilt out into the street. 2 point, position, (line of) reasoning, logic, plea, claim, pleading, assertion, contention, case; defence: His argument has merit. Arthur's argument falls apart when he brings in the phlogiston theory.
aromatic adj. fragrant, spicy, perfumed, savoury, pungent: A most agreeable scent came from a bowl of aromatic herbs.
arrangement n. 1 order, disposition, grouping, organization, array, display, structure, structuring, ordering, alignment, line-up, Colloq set-up: Don't you care for the arrangement of the furniture, Milady? 2 structure, combination, construction, contrivance, affair, set-up: An arrangement of bricks served as a hearth. 3 settlement, agreement, terms, plan, contract, covenant, compact: The arrangement called for Bosworth to get ten per cent of the gross profits. 4 orchestration, score, instrumentation, adaptation, interpretation, version: I prefer Fats Waller's arrangement of 'Sugar Blues'. 5 arrangements. preparations, plans; groundwork, planning: Arrangements have been made for the limousine to pick you up at five.
arrive v. 1 come, make one's appearance, appear, turn up, Colloq show up; Slang hit (town), blow in: She arrived only two minutes before the plane was to take off. 2 succeed, prosper, get ahead (in the world), reach the top, Colloq make it, make the grade, get somewhere, get there: Yuppies believe that once they own a fur coat and a Mercedes, they've arrived. 3 arrive at. come or get to, reach; attain: I think that Crumley has arrived at the stage in his career where he merits a promotion.
artful adj. 1 scheming, wily, sly, cunning, foxy, tricky, crafty, deceitful, underhand or underhanded, double-dealing, guileful, disingenuous: That artful fellow managed to sell me a completely useless gadget. 2 ingenious, clever, astute, shrewd, dexterous: She has practised her artful deceptions so long that nobody believes anything she says.
ashamed adj. embarrassed, abashed, humiliated, chagrined, mortified, blushing, shamefaced, sheepish, red-faced: I was ashamed to have to admit that it was I who had written the nasty letter.
aspiration n. desire, longing, yearning, craving, hankering, wish, dream, hope; ambition, aim, goal, objective, purpose, intention, plan, scheme, plot: It was his lifelong aspiration to marry someone with money.
assemble v. 1 convene, gather, call or bring or get together, convoke, summon, muster, marshal, rally, levy, round up, collect, congregate, forgather or foregather; meet: The forces were assembled along the waterfront. A small crowd assembled at the airport. 2 accumulate, gather, amass, collect, bring or group or lump together, compile, unite, join or draw together: The paintings were assembled from many sources. 3 construct, put together, erect, set up, fit or join or piece together, connect, fabricate, manufacture, make: The sculpture was assembled from so-called objets trouvs , or 'found' objects.
asset n. 1 Also, assets. property, resources, possessions, holdings, effects, capital, means, valuables, money, wealth: We have to pay a tax on the company's assets. Her only liquid asset was some shares in the Suez Canal Company. 2 talent, strength, advantage, resource, benefit: His main asset is that he speaks fluent Japanese.
assistance n. help, aid, support, succour, backing, reinforcement, relief, benefit: Can you get up without my assistance? The scholarship fund offered financial assistance.
assume v. 1 accept, adopt, take, use, employ; arrogate, appropriate, take over or up, undertake: Who will assume the leadership of the party? 2 take on (oneself), take upon (oneself), put or try on, don, adopt; acquire: Whenever she delivered the information, she assumed the disguise of an old man. That trivial dispute has assumed gargantuan proportions. 3 presume, suppose, believe, fancy, expect, think, presuppose, take, take for granted, surmise, Chiefly US guess: When I saw the knife in his hand, I assumed the chef was going to slice a lemon. The king assumed he had the cooperation of Parliament. 4 pretend to, feign, sham, counterfeit, simulate, sham, affect, fake: Though she cared deeply, she assumed a devil-may-care attitude.
astonish v. amaze, surprise, shock, astound, stun, stagger, dumbfound or dumfound, bowl over, floor, stupefy, daze, Colloq flabbergast: She astonished the audience with her gymnastic skill. I was astonished when told my wife had given birth to quintuplets.
atmosphere n. 1 air, heaven(s), sky, aerosphere: It is gravity that prevents the earth'satmosphere from drifting off into outer space. 2 air, ambience or ambiance, environment, climate, mood, feeling, feel, spirit, tone: There's such a friendly atmosphere in the bar of the Golden Cockerel. The atmosphere became very chilly when she told him she was marrying someone else.
atrocity n. 1 enormity, wickedness, flagitiousness, iniquity, infamy, cruelty, heinousness, horror, evil, inhumanity, barbarity, savagery: The atrocity of the 'Final Solution' was a well-kept secret during the war. 2 evil, outrage, crime, villainy, offence: She could not listen when the prosecutor read a list of the atrocities perpetrated at the camp.
attack v. 1 assail, assault, fall or set or pounce upon; charge, rush, raid, strike (at), storm; engage (in battle), fight; Colloq mug, jump: They were attacked on their way home by a gang of boys. Helicopter gunships were sent out to attack the bunker. 2 criticize, censure, berate; abuse, revile, inveigh against, denounce, condemn, malign, denigrate, decry, disparage, deprecate, vilify: His article attacked the minister for his views on housing. 3 begin, start; approach, undertake: We attacked the meal with gusto. 4 affect, seize; infect: Rheumatism attacks young and old alike. 5 waste, devour, destroy, eat; erode, corrode, decompose, dissolve: Termites have attacked the beams of the house. Watch how the acid attacks the areas on the plate that have not been protected. --n. 6 assault, onset, offensive, onslaught, incursion, raid, strike, inroad,invasion: The enemy responded to our attack with a smokescreen. After capturing the pawn, Karpov launched an attack on the queen. 7 criticism, censure; abuse, denunciation, revilement, denigration, decrial, disparagement, deprecation, vilification: The quarterly's attack is totally uncalled for. 8 seizure, spell, spasm, paroxysm; fit, bout: Preston has had another attack of gout. How do you stop an attack of hiccups? 9 destruction, wasting; erosion, corrosion: Noting the attack on the planks by shipworm, the surveyor declared the vessel unseaworthy. Aluminium will not withstand the attack of the salt air in this area.
attendant adj. 1 waiting upon, accompanying, following; resultant, resulting, related, consequent, concomitant, depending, accessory: The circumstances attendant on your acceptance of the post are immaterial. --n. 2 escort, servant, menial, helper, usher or usherette, chaperon orchaperone; aide, subordinate, underling, assistant; follower, Derogatory lackey, flunkey, slave; Colloq US cohort: He dismissed his attendants and entered the church alone.
attitude n. 1 posture, position, disposition, stance, bearing, carriage, aspect, demeanour: The attitude of the figures in the sculpture was one of supplication. 2 posture, position, disposition, opinion, feeling, view, point of view, viewpoint, approach, leaning, thought, inclination, bent, tendency, orientation: What is your attitude towards the situation in South Africa?
attribute n. 1 quality, character, characteristic, property, feature, trait, virtue: It is surprising how soon historical personages become invested with romantic attributes. --v. 2 ascribe, impute, assign, put down to, trace to, charge, credit: Theshrivelled arm of Richard the Third was attributed to witchcraft. To what do you attribute your interest in birds?
auspices n. aegis, sponsorship, authority, protection, support, backing, supervision, guidance, patronage, sanction, approval, control, influence: The competition is under the auspices of the astronomical society.
authoritarian adj. dictatorial, imperious, totalitarian, autocratic, arbitrary, absolute,dogmatic, domineering, strict, severe, unyielding, tyrannical, despotic, Colloq bossy: Why do people ever elect an authoritarian government?
automatic adj. 1 self-acting, self-governing, self-regulating, mechanical, robot, automated: Many modern cars are equipped with an automatic choke. 2 mechanical, involuntary, unconscious, instinctive or instinctual, natural, spontaneous, impulsive, conditioned, reflex, robot-like, Slang knee-jerk: Flinching is an automatic reaction to a threatening gesture. 3 unavoidable, inevitable, inescapable, ineluctable: It is automatic for the tax inspector to suspect people of hiding something.
avaricious adj. greedy, acquisitive, grasping, covetous, mercenary, selfish; penny-pinching, stingy, miserly, mean, parsimonious, tight-fisted, close-fisted, niggardly, penurious, tight: She fell into the clutches of an avaricious lawyer.
avoid v. shun, keep (away) from, keep off, leave alone, keep or steer clear of, refrain from, dodge, circumvent, sidestep, elude, escape, evade: The doctor suggested that I avoid chocolate. Why does Bennie avoid looking me straight in the eye?
awesome adj. awe-inspiring, awful, imposing, amazing, wonderful, breathtaking, marvellous, wondrous, moving, stirring, affecting, overwhelming, formidable, daunting, dreadful, fearsome, fearful, frightening, horrifying, terrifying, terrible; unbelievable, incredible; alarming, shocking, stunning, stupefying, astounding, astonishing,: The eruption of Vesuvius in AD 67 must have been a truly awesome spectacle.
babble v. 1 prattle, twaddle, jabber, gibber, chatter, blab, blabber, gurgle, burble, gabble, Colloq blab, blabber, gab, yack, natter, witter, Brit rabbit: The silly fellow kept babbling away, but no one was listening. Madelaine is still too young to talk and just babbles to herself. 2 divulge, tell, disclose, repeat, reveal, tattle, gossip, blurt (out), Colloq blab: Don't tell Nigel about the affair - he'll babble it all over town. --n. 3 gibberish, nonsense, twaddle, prattle, chatter(ing), gibber, jabber, jibber-jabber, drivel, rubbish, bavardage; murmur, hubbub: Ella's conversation about the financial market is just so much babble.
backer n. 1 supporter, advocate, promoter, sponsor, patron: She has always been an enthusiastic backer of adult education. 2 investor, benefactor or benefactress, supporter, underwriter, Colloq angel: The play's backers have made huge profits. 3 bettor, Brit punter: His backers are offering odds of 10 to 1.
backward adj. 1 bashful, shy, reticent, diffident, retiring, coy, timid, unwilling, loath, chary, reluctant, averse: She took him to be a bit backward when he didn't respond to her smile. 2 slow, dim-witted, dull, stupid, slow-witted, dumb, feeble-minded, Colloq Brit gormless, dim: Some of the more backward students will need extra help. 3 slow, late, behindhand, retarded: Millie seemed a bit backward in learning to walk. 4 rearward; to the rear, behind; to the past: She gave him a backward glance. He went on through life with never a backward look. 5 retrograde, retrogressive, reverse, regressive: The ancients were unable to account for the apparently backward motion of the planets. --adv. 6 backwards: Walk backward to the door with your hands up.
bag n. 1 sack, shopping bag, reticule, string bag, Chiefly Brit carrier bag, Scots or dialect poke, pocket: They have helpers at the supermarket who will carry your bags to your car for you. 2 baggage, luggage, valise, satchel, grip, suitcase, overnight bag, carry-on luggage or bag, Gladstone bag, carpet-bag, portmanteau, toilet kit or case, sponge bag; briefcase, attach case, dispatch- or despatch-case: Boarding in London I flew to Buenos Aires while my bag went to Seoul. 3 purse, handbag, evening bag, wallet, Highland dress sporran: She reached into her bag and felt the gun that the Commander had given her. 4 crone, hag, beast, ogress, gorgon, nightmare, witch, harridan, Archaic beldam, Slang old bat, dog, monster, US two-bagger: Derek has been romancing some old bag for her money. 5 occupation, hobby, avocation, business, vocation, department, concern, affair, Colloq lookout, worry, Slang thing: Peter's bag at the moment is learning to play the violin. --v. 6 catch, trap, ensnare, snare, entrap, capture, land; kill, shoot: We bagged six pheasants and two partridges this morning.
band n. 1 strip, ribbon, belt, bandeau, fillet, tie; stripe, line, border: He wears a cloth band round his head to keep the sweat out of his eyes. There is a decorative band at the top of each page. --v. 2 line, stripe, border: The column is banded at intervals with bas-reliefs depicting scenes from the emperor's life. 3 tie, keep, bind: Only those papers that are banded together should be sent off.
banquet n. 1 feast, sumptuous repast or meal, ceremonial dinner, lavish dinner: At the end of the banquet, the guest of honour rose to make a few remarks. --v. 2 feast, indulge, wine and dine, regale, carouse: The winners of the trophy banqueted night after night on champagne and caviare.
barbarity n. cruelty, inhumanity, ruthlessness, savagery, brutishness, barbarousness, heartlessness, viciousness, cold-bloodedness, bloodthirstiness: The barbarity of this mass murderer cannot be overstated.
bargain n. 1 agreement, contract, understanding, arrangement, covenant, pact, compact, settlement, transaction, deal: We made a bargain - I would provide the materials and he would do the work. 2 good deal, Colloq give-away, US steal: If you paid only 100 for this painting, you got a real bargain. --v. 3 negotiate, trade, haggle, barter, dicker, chaffer: We bargained far into the night, and finally came to an agreement after eight hours of discussion. 4 bargain for. expect, count on, anticipate, foresee, take into account, allow for, be prepared for: Even though the storm had been predicted, it was windier than we had bargained for.
base n. 1 bottom, foot, support, stand, pedestal: The base of the statue cracked and the whole thing fell down. Have you been able to find a teak base for the new lamp? 2 groundwork, background, fundamental principle, principle, foundation, underpinning; infrastructure, basis: Henry's charter was at once welcomed as a base for the needed reforms. 3 root, theme, radical, stem, core: In the word interdigitation the base is -digit- . 4 home, station, camp, starting-point, point of departure, post, centre: Using the Sherpa village as a base of operations, we set up smaller camps as we began to climb the mountain. --v. 5 establish, found, secure, build, ground, anchor, fix, hinge, form; derive, draw: We are basing all our hopes on his ability to do a deal. 6 establish, headquarter, post, station, position, place: The company is based in Guernsey.
basis n. 1 foundation, base, bottom, heart, footing, principle, underpinning; infrastructure: The three R's form the basis of elementary education. Do you think our society still rests on the basis of the family? 2 essence, main ingredient or constituent, point of departure: The basis of the discussion is that the hospitals are understaffed.
bauble n. gewgaw, trinket, ornament, trifle, toy, bagatelle, knick-knack, plaything, kickshaw: Wear your diamonds to the ball, my dear, not those cheap baubles.
beacon n. signal, sign, fire, light, bonfire, flare, signal fire, Very light, rocket; lighthouse, pharos: Beacons blazed at the tops of the hills to spread the news of the victory. The drunkard's nose shone like a beacon.
bearable adj. tolerable, supportable, endurable, acceptable, manageable: The heat last summer was made bearable only by frequent dips in the swimming-pool.
beat v. 1 strike, pound, bash, smite, batter, pummel or pommel, belabour, pelt, clout, thrash, give (someone) a thrashing or beating, drub, manhandle, thump, whack, cane, scourge, whip, bludgeon, club, cudgel, fustigate; whip, flog, lash , Colloq clobber, wallop, give (someone) a once-over: At first he refused to tell them, but then they beat it out of him. 2 defeat, best, worst, win (out) over, vanquish, trounce, rout, outdo, subdue, overcome, overwhelm, pre-empt; surpass, conquer, crush, master, US beat out: Can they beat Manchester United for the cup? He first beat the Danes, then the Russians. 3 throb, pulsate, palpitate, pound, thump: I could feel my heart beating against my ribs. 4 Nautical tack: Close-hauled, the sloop was beating to windward against the howling gale. 5 hammer, forge, shape, form, fashion, make, mould: They shall beat their swords into ploughshares. 6 mix, whip, stir, blend: Beat two eggs, then add the flour and sugar. 7 tread, wear, trample: The hunters beat a path through the forest. 8 beat it. depart, leave, abscond, run off or away, Slang US take it on the lam, lam out of here, US hit the road: You'd better beat it before the cops come. 9 beat off. drive off or away, rout: We beat off our attackers, who fled into the forest. --n. 10 stroke, blow: The signal was to be three beats of a tin cup on the pipes. 11 rhythm, tempo, measure; pulse, throb, stress, pulsation: In boogie-woogie the beat is eight to the bar. 12 course, round, tour, route, circuit, run, path; area, bailiwick: In the old days, it was the bobby on the beat who prevented a lot of crime. As a reporter, my beat is the financial news. --adj. 13 dead beat, exhausted, spent, drained, worn out, weary, bone-tired, fatigued, fagged: I was really beat after completing the marathon.
beauty n. 1 loveliness, attractiveness, handsomeness, pulchritude: The beauty of the actress took my breath away. 2 belle, Colloq looker, knockout, dream, dreamboat, stunner: She was one of the great beauties of her day. 3 attraction, strength, advantage, asset: The beauty of the plan lies in its simplicity.
bedlam n. pandemonium, uproar, hubbub, commotion, confusion, tumult, turmoil, furore or US furor, chaos; madhouse: The chancellor's announcement created instant bedlam in the Commons.
beg v. 1 entreat, beseech, plead (with), crave, implore, importune, wheedle, cajole, supplicate (with), pray; ask for, request: She begged me to stay. 2 solicit, sponge, Colloq cadge, scrounge, US panhandle: When he was an alcoholic, he used to beg drinks off everyone.
begrudge v. 1 resent, envy, grudge: She doesn't begrudge him his success. 2 give (be)grudgingly or unwillingly or reluctantly, deny, refuse: He begrudges her the slightest consideration.
behaviour n. conduct, demeanour, deportment, bearing, manners, comportment; action(s): His behaviour in the presence of the royal couple was abominable.
behove v. US behoove; be required of, be incumbent on, be proper of, be fitting of or for, befit; be advisable for, be worthwhile for, be expeditious for or of, be advantageous to or for, be useful to or for, be beneficial to or for: It behoves you to be respectful to the chairman of the board.
believe v. 1 accept, put faith or credence in or into, find credible, find creditable; allow, think, hold, maintain, feel; take it, suppose, assume: He still believes that the moon is made of green cheese. 2 believe in. trust to or in, rely upon or on, have faith or confidence in, put one's trust in, be convinced of, swear by, credit; have the courage of one's convictions: Do you believe everything you read in the papers? The chairman believes in your ability to carry out the plan. 3 make believe. pretend, suppose, imagine, fancy, conjecture, assume: I used to make believe I was a great detective.
belong v. 1 be a member (of), be affiliated or associated or connected (with), be attached or bound (to), be a part (of): Does he belong to the Green party? He didn't want to belong while his wife was a member. 2 have a (proper) place (in), be proper (to): Do you ever get the feeling that you don't belong here? 3 belong to. be owned by, be the property or possession of: That coat belongs to me.
below adv. 1 lower down, further down, farther down: Please see the explanation given below. The department head could no longer resist the pressures from below. 2 beneath, underneath, under; downstairs, Nautical below-decks, Brit below-stairs: Can you hear someone walking about below? They put the captain in irons below. 3 on earth, here, in this world, under the sun: Man wants but little here below. --prep. 4 under, underneath, beneath: Below the sea live creatures we have never even seen. Barely discernible below his nose was a tiny moustache. Sign your name below 'Yours truly'. 5 less or lower or cheaper than: The sale price is below cost. 6 deeper or further or farther down than: The current is strongest about six feet below the surface. 7 under, beneath, underneath: Her bright eyes peered at him from below the wide hat. 8 lower or less than, under: The temperature was 20 degrees below zero. 9 inferior or subordinate to, lower than: He gives orders to the servants below him. 10 inferior or secondary to, under, beneath, lower than: In exports, the USA and UK are below Japan. 11 beneath, unworthy of, unbefitting, not worth: Mugging old ladies is below contempt.
bend n. 1 curve, turn, turning, corner; bow, angle, crook, hook, curvature, flexure: Go left at the bend in the road. If you put a bend in a wire hanger, you can fish out the obstruction. --v. 2 arch, bow, curve, crook: Soak the branch in water and it will bend easily. Stop bending my arm - it hurts! 3 bow; curtsy or curtsey; kowtow, salaam; kneel, genuflect: The cannibal bent down before a pile of skulls. 4 incline, channel, focus, direct, steer, set; fix: He bent his attention on more important matters. She bent her steps towards the cemetery. 5 submit, bow, yield, give way, be pliant or subservient or tractable: The cabinet bends to the will of the prime minister. 6 incline, turn, deflect: As you can see, the ray is bent by the lens.
beneficial adj. 1 advantageous, serviceable, useful, profitable, helpful, supportive, favourable, constructive, good: No measures could have been more beneficial to the kingdom. 2 healthful, healthy, salutary, salubrious; efficacious, effective: A certain amount of sunshine is quite beneficial.
benign adj. 1 kindly, gracious, good, kind, kind-hearted, benevolent, benignant, warm, warm-hearted, cordial, genial, congenial, tender, tender-hearted, compassionate, sympathetic, soft-hearted: It was Grandad's benign goodwill that kept us together in those hard times. 2 bland, gentle, mild, warm: A benign smile lit the headmaster's face as he announced the awards for scholastic achievement. 3 kind, favourable, fortunate; salutary, salubrious, mild, congenial, propitious: She recovered rapidly in that most benign climate. 4 non-fatal, non-malignant, non-virulent, curable, harmless: Fortunately, the biopsy showed that the tumour was benign.
berate v. scold, chide, rate, upbraid, revile, abuse, rail at, excoriate, castigate, objurgate; harangue: In the square an ancient virago was berating a butcher.
beset v. encompass, surround, besiege; assail, attack, harass, harry, hector, bother, afflict, trouble: She was beset by all the problems involved in having a job and a family.
best adj. 1 superlative, unexcelled, finest, pre-eminent, first, superb, unsurpassed, superior, excellent, paramount, first-rate, Colloq A-1, A-one: Henry VIII was the best rider, the best lance, and the best archer in England. 2 kindest, most beneficent, nicest: Which of your brothers is the best to you? 3 foremost, choicest, pre-eminent, most suitable, most appropriate, most qualified, most talented, most desirable, most outstanding: We want the best person to fill the job. 4 largest, most, greatest: She had travelled the best part of the way by ship. 5 richest, wealthiest; first-class, upper crust, upper-class: He associates only with those he considers to be the best people. --n. 6 finest; first: The best is yet to come. 7 finery, best clothes, Colloq best bib and tucker: He was all decked out in his Sunday best. 8 greatest or maximum effort: He did his best but it wasn't enough to win. --adv. 9 most excellently, to the fullest extent, in the most suitable way, most adroitly, most skilfully, most superbly, most artistically: All the children performed well, but Alice performed best. 10 with greatest satisfaction, most successfully: He who laughs last laughs best. --v. 11 win (out) over, conquer, beat, surpass, overpower, get the better of, subdue, defeat, worst, vanquish, trounce, rout, crush, master, outdo, overwhelm, overcome, outwit: He was bested in three falls out of four.
betrayal n. 1 treachery, treason, disloyalty, perfidy, traitorousness, faithlessness, bad faith, breach of faith: His delivery of the country into the hands of an invader was an outright act of betrayal. 2 revelation, divulging, disclosure, divulgence: People should not be led into betrayals of their secret opinions.
beware v. take heed, be careful, be wary, be cautious, be on one's guard, exercise caution, mind, watch out, look out, take care: There are shoals nearby, so beware. Beware the ides of March!
biased adj. biased, prejudiced, partial; warped, distorted, jaundiced: I don't want to listen to your biased opinions about women's rights.
big adj. 1 large, great, grand; huge, enormous, immense, gigantic, giant, tremendous, colossal, Brobdingnagian, jumbo, Colloq Brit socking or whacking big or great, US humongous: We live in a big house in the country. 2 ample, hefty, huge, bulky, fat, obese; large, hulking, beefy, burly, brawny, strapping, gargantuan, elephantine, enormous, gigantic, immense, monstrous: The sumo wrestler was one of the biggest men I'd ever seen. 3 tall, grown, mature, grown-up, large: Christopher is certainly big for his age. 4 important, significant, outstanding, weighty, consequential, major, grave, momentous, notable, noteworthy, telling: Changing careers can be one of the biggest decisions of your life. 5 important, prominent, illustrious, noteworthy, notable, renowned, eminent, distinguished, esteemed: Mr Johnson is a big man in our town. 6 generous, magnanimous, charitable, unselfish, giving: It was very big of her to take on the support of the orphanage. 7 popular, famous, well-known, successful: That band is very big with the kids these days. 8 capital, large, upper case, majuscule: Always spell London with a big L. --adv. 9 pompously, boastfully, conceitedly, arrogantly, pretentiously: Alfred talks big at home, but he's very modest when he's with his friends. 10 successfully, well, oustandingly,effectively: I think your speech went over big with those opposed to the new budget.
bilious adj. ill-tempered, bad-tempered, ill-natured, peevish, testy, cross, petulant, tetchy, choleric, dyspeptic, angry, wrathful: The director was absolutely bilious when he heard we had lost the account.
birth n. 1 childbirth, delivery, Technical parturition, Old-fashioned confinement: Nicole is expecting the birth of her first baby in early April. 2 origin, creation, emergence, beginning, start, origination: I believe we may be present at the birth of a powerful idea. 3 nativity, origin, extraction; parentage, line, lineage, ancestry, descent, family, blood: She is Scottish by birth. Hortense is of noble birth.
bite v. 1 nip; chew, gnaw: That dog of yours bit a piece out of my ankle. 2 sting: She was bitten by a mosquito. --n. 3 mouthful, morsel, scrap, bit, piece, taste; snack, Slang nosh: The survivors hadn't had a bite of food for three days. Come round for a bite on Sunday evening before the concert. 4 sting: These mosquito bites itch horribly.
bizarre adj. 1 eccentric, unusual, unconventional, extravagant, whimsical, strange, odd, curious, peculiar, queer, offbeat, fantastic, weird, incongruous, deviant, erratic, Slang kinky: The police thought his behaviour somewhat bizarre and invited him down to the station for questioning. 2 grotesque, irregular, nonconformist, nonconforming, outlandish, outr, quaint, fantastic, unconventional: His house is a bizarre mixture of baroque and modern design. blab Colloq v. broadcast, tattle, babble, betray, reveal, disclose, divulge, expose: Don't tell Frieda - she'll blab your secrets all over town.
blackleg n. scab, strikebreaker: Despite the strike, the plant is being operated by blackleg labour.
blameless adj. faultless, guiltless, innocent, irreproachable, unimpeachable: Hugh has led a blameless life.
blas adj. 1 bored, jaded, weary, unimpressed, ennuy: Her blas attitude does little to endear her at job interviews. 2 indifferent, cool, superior, supercilious, sophisticated, unmoved, nonchalant, emotionless, phlegmatic, apathetic, pococurante, carefree, light-hearted, insouciant: His blas behaviour hides his basic feelings of insecurity.
blatant adj. 1 obvious, flagrant, palpable, obtrusive, arrant, shameless, unashamed, brazen, overt, glaring: Those hooligans have shown a blatant disregard for the law. 2 noisy, clamorous, loud, bellowing, strident, vociferous, rowdy, boisterous, obstreperous, uproarious: The blatant radical faction insists on making itself heard.
blend v. 1 mix, mingle, combine, meld, commingle, intermingle: The Latakia is blended with the Virginia to produce a fine smoking tobacco. 2 shade, grade, gradate, graduate, merge, coalesce, fuse, unite: Note how the pink sky and the tinted clouds blend in this Turner painting. --n. 3 mixture, mix, combination, mingling, meld, commingling, intermingling: His humour is a fine blend of the sardonic with slapstick.
blind adj. 1 sightless, eyeless, unsighted, purblind, stone-blind: He has been blind from birth. 2 imperceptive, slow, insensitive, thick, dense, obtuse, stupid, weak-minded, dull-witted, slow-witted, dim-witted, Colloq Brit gormless: How blind some parents are! There's another case of the blind leading the blind. 3 indiscriminate, undiscriminating, heedless, reckless, rash, impetuous, inconsiderate, unreasoning, mindless, senseless, thoughtless, unthinking, irrational, delusional: He did her bidding with the blind obedience of a dog. 4 blind to. unaware or unconscious of, impervious or insensible to, unaffected or untouched or unmoved by: The critics were blind to her merits as a novelist till many years had passed. --v. 5 deceive, blindfold, blinker; bamboozle, hoodwink, fool: Wolsey could not blind himself to the true condition of the church. How jealousy blinds people! 6 conceal, hide, eclipse, overshadow; dazzle, blindfold: The bright lights of the city blinded our view of the airport runway. Her beauty blinded him to her greed. --n. 7 shade, curtain, screen, cover, shutter(s), awning: The sun is too bright - please draw the blind. 8 pretence, pretext, front, cover, smokescreen, stratagem, subterfuge, ruse, trick, deception, Colloq dodge; Slang scam: The plumbing service is merely a blind for getting into houses to rob them.
blithe adj. 1 blissful, happy, cheerful, joyous, merry, light-hearted, well-pleased, delighted, gay, joyful, elated, jubilant: His spirit was blithe and his heart unquenchable. 2 happy-go-lucky, insouciant, heedless, carefree, unconcerned, blas, casual, detached, indifferent, uncaring, careless: She goes through life with a blithe disregard for the feelings of others.
bloodshed n. slaughter, carnage, butchery, killing, murder, blood-letting; violence; genocide: Let's settle this peaceably and avoid bloodshed.
blow v. 1 breathe, puff, exhale; expel: If the crystals turn green when you blow into the tube, it means that you've had too much to drink. Blow some air into the balloon. 2 waft, puff, whistle, whine, blast: An icy wind blew through the cracks in the windows. 3 Colloq bungle, botch, make a mess of, muff, mismanage, Colloq screw up, mess up, fluff, bugger up, Taboo fuck up: It was my last chance to win and I blew it. 4 Colloq spend, lavish, squander, waste, throw out or away: She blew hundreds on that dress and now she won't wear it. 5 short-circuit, burn out: All the fuses blew when I turned on the electric heater. 6 blow hot and cold. vacillate, hesitate, dither, Colloq shilly-shally: The sales manager has been blowing hot and cold over my proposal for a month now. 7 blow out. a extinguish: I blew out all the candles in one breath. The match blew out in the wind. b explode, burst: One of my tyres blew out on the way over here. c short-circuit, burn out: The lights blew out during the storm. 8 blow up. a become furious or angry or enraged, flare up, lose one's temper, Slang blow one's top or US also stack, flip one's lid: She really blew up when I said I was going to the pub. b explode, burst, shatter, Colloq bust; detonate, dynamite, destroy, blast: The bridge blew up with a roar. Demolition experts will blow up the dam. c enlarge, inflate, embroider, magnify, expand, exaggerate, overstate: The tabloid press has blown up the story out of all proportion. d enlarge, magnify, amplify, expand, increase: Can you blow up just this corner of the photograph? e inflate; distend, swell: We were busy blowing up balloons for the party. --n. 9 gale, storm, tempest, whirlwind, tornado, cyclone, hurricane, typhoon, north-easter, nor'easter: We can expect a big blow tonight - winds of gale force, they say.
bluff adj. 1 blustering, gruff, rough, abrupt, blunt, curt, short, crude: Fred's bluff manner puts many people off. 2 frank, open, hearty, straightforward, plain, plain-spoken, outspoken, affable, approachable, good-natured, friendly: That comment is typical of his bluff honesty. --n. 3 cliff, escarpment, precipice, scarp, headland, promontory, palisades: As you sail down the lower Hudson river, the tall bluffs form a natural wall along the western bank.
blurt v. Usually, blurt out. burst out with, utter; reveal, disclose, give away, divulge, Colloq blab: She blurted out the name of her accomplice.
boast n. 1 brag, bragging: They did not make good their boasts of being the fastest in the competition. --v. 2 brag, vaunt, crow, show off, Colloq US blow or toot one's (own) horn or trumpet; Slang lay it on thick, talk big: He boasted that he was the best poker player in the casino.
body n. 1 corpse, cadaver, remains, carcass, Slang stiff: A body has been dragged up from the lake. 2 trunk, torso: They found the body, but the arms, legs, and head were missing. 3 main part or portion, hull, fuselage: The body of the plane remained intact, though the wings and superstructure broke away. 4 substance, essentials, main part, essence, heart, centre, core: The body of the book is all right, but the index needs work. 5 majority, bulk, main part or portion, mass(es): Under Henry VIII the main body of the people were prosperous. 6 association, league, band, corps, confederation, fraternity, society; committee, council; group, assemblage, assembly, congress, company: It is not within the power of this body to do more than vote on the proposal. 7 richness, substance, firmness, consistency, solidity, thickness, density, fullness, viscosity, fullness: This wine has excellent body. Add a little cornflour to give the sauce more body.
boil v. 1 bubble, seethe; simmer, stew, steam: A pot of soup was boiling on the kitchen stove. 2 seethe, fume, sizzle, smoulder, chafe, fulminate, ferment, sputter, splutter, bluster: When she learned what he had been saying about her, she boiled with furious indignation.
bolster v. support, prop (up), brace, shore up, buttress, uphold, back (up), reinforce, aid, help, assist, further, advance: The miners cited a lack of safety measures to bolster their arguments.
bombast n. pretentious language, flatulence, bluster, show, grandiloquence, magniloquence, hot air, bravado, boast, boasting, Literary gasconade, rodomontade; Colloq puffery: The speaker continued to bore the audience with his pompous bombast.
bond n. 1 tie(s), shackles, chains, fetters, manacles, handcuffs, trammels, thongs, cord(s), rope(s); restraint(s), constraint(s), check(s), control(s), rein(s): The council is hampered by the bonds of the old regulations. 2 covenant, pact, contract, agreement, engagement, compact, treaty: To unite the party a bond of confederacy was formed. 3 connection, link, linkage, union, tie, relationship: The main bond between us was a shared love of the theatre. The bond between the veneer and the board should hold with a little more glue. --v. 4 cement, bind, hold together, stick, cohere: They use mortar to bond the bricks together.
book n. 1 volume, tome, work, publication; hard-cover, soft-cover, paperback: Our personal library contains more than 5000 books. 2 libretto, words, lyrics: Richard Rodgers wrote the music and Oscar Hammerstein the book for several hit shows. 3 rules, laws, regulations: He always insists that we go by the book. --v. 4 engage, reserve; earmark, ticket; order, register, enrol, list, enlist, log, record, post: Please phone the restaurant and book a table for four for seven-thirty.
boomerang v. rebound, recoil, backfire, miscarry, redound: His plan boomeranged.
boost n. 1 lift, shove or push up or upward(s), Colloq leg up; rise, raise: If you give me a boost up, I can reach the window ledge. 2 encouragement, help, aid, assistance, support: With a boost from your constituency, Trevor should win the vote. 3 increase, rise, US raise, hike: He was given a slight boost in salary as an incentive to stay. --v. 4 lift, shove or push up or upward(s), raise: He boosted her over the fence. The second stage is intended to boost the rocket beyond the atmosphere. 5 encourage, promote, help, aid, support, assist, improve: A talk from the manager before the game helped to boost the players' morale. 6 increase, raise: Her salary was boosted twice in one year.
booty n. plunder, gain, spoil(s), contraband, takings, loot, Slang swag, boodle, (hot) goods, take: The pirates fought over the booty seized from the Spanish galleon.
bore n. 1 annoyance, nuisance: Reggie is such a bore - always talking about himself. --v. 2 weary, wear out, tire, exhaust, jade: The programme so bored me that I fell asleep.
bosom n. 1 breast, chest, bust; Slang boobs, knockers, tits, titties, pair, jugs, Brit Bristols: The sex goddess's lack of talent was more than compensated for by her ample bosom. 2 midst, interior, heart, core, centre: She was welcomed into the bosom of the family as if she had been their own child. 3 soul, heart, heart of hearts, bowels, blood, Colloq gut: I know he loves me, I can feel it in my bosom. --adj. 4 close, intimate, dear, beloved, cherished, boon, special, confidential: We were once bosom companions.
botch v. bungle, mismanage, spoil, Colloq screw or louse up, blow, mess up, muck up, make a mess or hash or muddle of; Slang bollocks or ballocks or US bollix up: Give Gordon an assignment and he's sure to botch it.
bottomless adj. unfathomed, unfathomable, abyssal, abysmal, inexhaustible, unlimited, immeasurable, unplumbable: The bottomless ignorance of the man is incredible.
bound adj. 1 tied, fast, fixed, fastened, confined, secured: We were bound hand and foot and left in the cave. 2 obliged, obligated, required, constrained, forced, compelled: In the circumstances, Philippa was bound to do as she was told. 3 determined, resolved: Otto is bound to go to the party if Antonia is going. 4 likely, certain, sure, destined, predestined, fated, doomed: He is bound to get the sack if he goes on turning up late. 5 destined, scheduled, booked; headed, directed: We were bound for Cardiff.
bounty n. 1 generosity, liberality, munificence, charitableness, philanthropy, charity, unselfishness, beneficence, goodness: The poor used to be dependent on the bounty of the local gentry. 2 gift, present, largesse, grant, subsidy, endowment, subvention: People should be given work and not live off the bounty of the state. 3 reward, award, premium, bonus, gratuity: In America they paid a bounty of 50 for every dead wolf.
bow n. 1 nod; curtsy or curtsey, salaam, kowtow, genuflection, prostration, obeisance: We all bowed respectfully before the emperor. --v. 2 defer, yield, submit, give in, bend, bow down, capitulate: I bow to your greater knowledge of the subject. 3 bend, incline, lower: The servants bowed their heads when the master entered. 4 weigh down, crush, overload, bend down, burden: Michael was bowed down by the responsibilities of his new family. 5 nod, curtsy or curtsey, salaam, kowtow, genuflect, prostrate oneself, salaam, make obeisance: The natives bowed as the king passed by.
box v. 1 fight, engage in fisticuffs, spar, battle: When he was in the army, he boxed for his regiment. 2 strike, buffet, punch, hit, Colloq slug, sock, whack, thwack, clout, belt, thump, lambaste, whomp: Every time she heard him swear, she'd box his ears. --n. 3 blow, buffet, punch, hit, strike, Colloq slug, sock, whack, thwack, clout, belt, thump, whomp: How would you like a box on the ear, you young rascal!
brace n. 1 bracket, stiffener, reinforcement, reinforcer, support, buttress, prop, stay, strut, truss: Two steel braces have been installed to steady the columns. 2 drill: He bored three holes in the wood with his brace and auger. 3 clasp, clamp, buckle, fastener, clip, holdfast, catch, coupler, coupling: Another brace will be needed here to strengthen the handle. 4 pair; couple, span, team (of two): A brace of duelling pistols was sold at auction last week for 20,000. Her carriage was drawn by a brace of palominos. --v. 5 steady, reinforce, support, strengthen, prop or shore up: Iron bars are used to brace the arches. 6 brace oneself. steady or gird or prepare oneself; hold or hang on: I braced myself against the likelihood that she would refuse.
braggart n. boaster, bragger, braggadocio, windbag, peacock, show-off, Scaramouch or Scaramouche, Slang big-mouth, loud-mouth, gasbag: That braggart William Smith talks about himself incessantly.
branch n. 1 offshoot, arm; limb, bough, stem, shoot, twig, sprig: The branches of this tree need trimming. 2 department, section, subsection, division, subdivision, office, part, ramification; affiliate, subsidiary; spin-off: What branch of medicine are you going to specialize in? The company maintains branches in New York and Melbourne. --v. 3 ramify, divide, subdivide, diverge; diversify: This road branches off in three directions. The company will branch out into electronics this year.
brass n. effrontery, gall, nerve, temerity, impudence, insolence, rudeness, Colloq cheek, nerve: He had the brass to turn down a knighthood.
bravery n. daring, courage, valour, heroism, fortitude, fearlessness, intrepidity, intrepidness, pluck, determination, staunchness, firmness, resoluteness, resolution, indomitability, stalwartness, Colloq machismo: One has to admire the bravery of a woman who supported suffrage in the early 1900s.
brazen adj. brassy, shameless, barefaced, brash, outspoken, forward, immodest, unashamed, audacious, candid, open, unabashed, brazen-faced; rude, impudent, impertinent, insolent, saucy, Colloq cheeky, fresh, US sassy: That's the last time I'll let that brazen hussy near my husband!
breakdown n. 1 collapse, downfall, failure, foundering; destruction, ruin: There was a breakdown of our computer system. The arbitrators blamed a breakdown of communication between union and management. 2 (mental) collapse, nervous breakdown, Colloq crack-up: She had a bad breakdown after her daughter was killed. 3 analysis, run-down, detailing, review; decomposition, itemization, classification, dissection, distillation, fractionation: I want a breakdown of these figures by noon. The chemical breakdown of the substance indicated the presence of arsenic.
breathe v. 1 live, exist: She believes that there never breathed a wiser man than her father. 2 inhale and exhale, respire, suspire: He was breathing regularly. 3 exhale, expel, puff, blow: The banner depicts a dragon breathing fire. 4 whisper, murmur, hint (at), suggest, tell, speak, say: She told me not to breathe a word of it to anybody.
breezy adj. 1 airy, fresh, windy, draughty, brisk, gusty: The afternoon was breezy and warm, ideal for walking. 2 casual, carefree, light-hearted, cheerful, cheery, airy, lively, spirited, blithesome, buoyant: The chairman's breezy opening of the annual meeting made everyone feel comfortable.
bric--brac n. bric-a-brac, curiosities, knick-knacks, collectables or collectibles, trinkets, gewgaws, gimcracks; bibelots, curios, objets d'art, objets de vertu: On Saturday she went to an antiques fair and bought still more bric--brac to clutter up the house.
bridle n. 1 restraint, curb, check, control: Man has need of a bridle on his passions. --v. 2 curb, check, restrain, hold in, control: You must learn to bridle your temper. 3 bristle, draw oneself up, be or become indignant, take offence or umbrage or affront (at), be affronted or offended (by): She bridled at the suggestion that she was responsible for Keith's departure.
brighten v. 1 illuminate, enliven, lighten, cheer up, liven up, Colloq perk up: Replacing those heavy draperies with thinner curtains ought to brighten the room. 2 shine, polish, burnish: The silver could use a bit of brightening up.
bring v. 1 carry, bear, fetch, get, take; deliver: Don't forget to bring some wine home for dinner tonight. 2 lead, conduct, convey; escort, invite, accompany: The road brought me to your house. You can bring anyone you like to the party. 3 draw, attract, lure, allure: What brings you to London? 4 carry, bear, convey; report: She brought word of the uprising. 5 bring on, bring about, occasion, give rise to, be the source or cause of, create, cause, engender, produce; contribute to: The thought of his mother brought tears to his eyes. 6 institute, advance; invoke: She is bringing charges against him for slander. 7 bring about. occasion, cause, bring on, accomplish, effect, achieve, produce: The government has brought about changes in the health service. 8 bring down. a overthrow, depose, oust, unseat, dethrone, overturn, topple: A military faction has brought down the government. b reduce, lessen, diminish, cut (back or down): The chancellor promised to bring down taxes in the next budget. 9 bring forth. a bear, give birth to, produce; yield: The kangaroo brings forth young less than an inch in size. b set forth, bring out or in or up, introduce, present, produce, put out, submit, offer, advance: Mr Hanson has brought forth a new sales plan. 10 bring in. a earn, yield, produce, realize, fetch, return, sell for: Advertising brings in more revenue than subscriptions. b See def. 15, below. 11 bring off. succeed (in), carry out, achieve, accomplish, do, carry out or off, perform, succeed, pull off; Colloq put over: Do you really think she'll be able to bring off her masquerade? 12 bring on. a produce, put on, introduce, bring in: When the children in the audience began to get restless, they brought on the clowns. b induce, produce, occasion, bring about: Eating strawberries brought on a rash. 13 bring out. a display, feature, focus on, illuminate, set off, make noticeable or conspicuous, emphasize, develop: The colour of the dress brings out the blue of your eyes. b publish, issue, release, make known or public, produce; put on, stage: They've brought out a new edition of Dickens's works. 14 bring round or around. a revive, resuscitate, bring to; restore: The smelling salts brought her round when she fainted. b persuade, win over, convince, influence: Can he be brought round to our way of thinking? 15 bring up. a rear, raise, care for, look after, nurture, breed; educate, teach, train, tutor: She has brought up six children on her own. b introduce, broach, bring in, raise, pen (up), set forth, mention, touch on, talk about, discuss; reintroduce, recall: Why bring up irrelevant matters like his age? c raise, elevate: So far, they have brought up only three survivors from the mine. d vomit, throw up, regurgitate, disgorge: He woke up feeling sick and brought up most of the previous night's meal.
brittle adj. 1 fragile, frangible, breakable; friable: My fingernails become brittle in the cold and break easily. 2 frail, weak, delicate, sensitive, fragile, insecure: She might seem strong, but she has a very brittle nature and is easily upset.
brochure n. pamphlet, booklet; catalogue; folder, leaflet; tract: The brochure advertising the company's products will be ready tomorrow.
broken-hearted adj. heart-broken, depressed, downhearted, dejected, devastated, crushed, overwhelmed, heartsick, downcast, upset; forlorn, sorrowful, disconsolate, inconsolable, grief-stricken, miserable, wretched, melancholy, heavy-hearted, sad, doleful, dolorous, woeful, woebegone, gloomy, morose, glum, cheerless, Colloq down: She was broken-hearted when her puppy was lost.
brook n. stream, rivulet, run, runnel, rill, US and Canadian and Australian and New Zealand creek; No. Eng. dialect beck, gill or ghyll; Scots burn: The river is fed by numerous brooks from every part of the country.
brother n. sibling; relation, relative, kin, kinsman; fellow, fellow-man, fellow-clansman, fellow-citizen, fellow-countryman, fellow-creature; associate, colleague, confrre, companion, Colloq pal, chum, Brit and Australian mate, US buddy: Some day, perhaps all men will regard each other as brothers.
browse v. look over or through, skim (through), scan, thumb or flip or flick through: I was browsing through some recent acquisitions at the second-hand bookshop.
brush n. 1 brushwood, shrubs, undergrowth, branches, scrub, brush, bracken, brambles, underbrush, underwood: It took us three days to clear the brush from around the house. 2 thicket, brake, copse, grove, boscage: The fox disappeared into the brush, which was too dense for the dogs to follow.
brutal adj. 1 inhuman, savage, cruel, pitiless, harsh, severe, barbaric, barbarous, beastly, bestial, sadistic, murderous; inhumane, heartless, hard-hearted, unkind, fierce, stony-hearted, insensitive, unfeeling, cold-blooded, unsympathetic, remorseless, ruthless, ferocious, atrocious, Draconian or Draconic, Literary fell: Few survived the brutal treatment in the concentration camps. 2 rude, ill-mannered, coarse, unrefined, boorish, ill-bred, rustic, crass, uncouth, uncultured, uncultivated, rough, crude: His brutal behaviour made him unfit to represent the Crown.
buckle n. 1 clasp, fastener, clip, fastening, hook, catch: The buckle broke on my belt and my trousers fell down. --v. 2 collapse, cave in, crumple, bend, warp, distort, twist, bulge: The support gave way and the entire wall buckled.
building n. edifice, structure, construction, erection: The building where I work is air-conditioned.
bulletin n. message, notice, communication, announcement, communiqu, dispatch or despatch, report, account, flash, news item, newsflash: And now, here's a bulletin from the centre court at Wimbledon.
bumpy adj. lumpy, rough, uneven, irregular, knobby, knobbly, pitted; potholed, bouncy, jarring, jerky, rutted: The skin on his forehead is a bit bumpy. This is the bumpiest road in the town.
buoy n. 1 (navigational or channel) mark or marker, float; nun (-buoy), can (-buoy), bell (buoy), gong (-buoy), siren, signal, mooring-buoy, spar-buoy, lollipop: Returning to port, always leave the red buoys to starboard. --v. 2 Often, buoy up. lift, raise, elevate, support, hearten, sustain, keep up: We sang songs to buoy up our spirits while the rescuers dug their way towards us.
bureau n. 1 Brit (writing-)desk, US chest of drawers, chest, dresser, chifferobe, chiffonier: Simon has a beautiful antique bureau in his office. One of my cuff-links rolled under the bureau. 2 office, agency, department, division, section, subdivision, subsection, desk: I sent the form to the bureau a month ago, but I still don't have my visa.
burlesque n. 1 caricature, lampoon, spoof, parody, satire, mockery, travesty, Colloq take-off; (grotesque) imitation, vulgarization, exaggeration: In the mid-19th century, burlesques drove pantomimes off the stage. 2 US striptease, strip show, nudie or girlie show: The old comedians insist that burlesque acts were an art form, but the audience went just for the girls. --v. 3 satirize, take off, lampoon, spoof, parody, caricature, travesty: Cervantes burlesqued the old romances in Don Quixote . --adj. 4 satirical, derisive, mock-heroic, mock-pathetic: She sang a burlesque opera based on Hamlet, called 'Omelette'.
burrow n. 1 excavation, hole, warren, tunnel: The rabbit retreated to its burrow under the hedge. --v. 2 dig, delve, tunnel, bore; excavate: The larvae burrow into the wood where the birds can hear them moving about.
busy adj. 1 occupied, engaged, employed, involved: I can't talk to you now, I'm busy. 2 working, industrious, active, diligent; bustling, hectic, lively, hustling, energetic: Are you very busy at the office these days? The diamond district is certainly a busy place. 3 ornate, elaborate, detailed, complicated, complex, (over-)decorated, intricate, Baroque, Rococo: Some of the late Victorian architecture is far too busy for my taste. --v. 4 occupy, involve, employ, divert, absorb, engross: She has busied herself with charity work to get her mind off the tragedy.
butt v. 1 abut, join, meet: This wall butts up against my garage. 2 butt in or into. interfere, intrude, interrupt, Colloq US kibitz; meddle: Please let me finish a sentence without butting in. Don't butt into my affairs.
buxom adj. 1 hearty, healthy, vigorous, lusty, attractive, comely, plump, Colloq hefty: Sylvia was a buxom serving-wench at the Bugle Horn. 2 busty, bosomy, chesty, well-endowed, big-busted: The centrefolds in this magazine usually show quite buxom women.
by prep. 1 near, beside, next to, close to, alongside: I park my car by my house. 2 via, by way of, through; past: I go home by High Wycombe. 3 by means of, on: I often travel by train. 4 before, not later than, sooner than: I have to leave by Monday. 5 during, at: We travel only by night. --adv. 6 Often, close by. near, nearby, at hand, close, about, around, Literary nigh: When she is close by I get a tingling sensation. 7 past, nearby: When he walked by I nearly died. 8 away, aside: We put by a little for a rainy day.
byword n. proverb, proverbial saying, parable, maxim, adage, motto, slogan, apophthegm or apothegm, aphorism, catchword, catch-phrase: My byword has always been, Honesty is the best policy.
cabin n. 1 hut, shack, cottage, cot, shanty; bungalow, lodge, chalet; Scots bothy: The old trapper lives in a cabin in the forest. You are welcome to come skiing with us and stay in our cabin. 2 stateroom, compartment, berth: We had a cabin on the starboard side.
cachet n. 1 stamp, feature, distinguishing mark, identification: The cachet of good taste is simplicity of design. 2 distinction, prominence, importance, prestige, dignity: Her new job doesn't pay much, but it has a certain cachet.
cage n. 1 crate, enclosure, pen, pound, coop, hutch: He keeps rooks in a cage. --v. 2 Also, cage up or in. confine, enclose, pen, impound, shut up, or in, coop (up), imprison; restrict, restrain, hem in: They keep the kitten caged like a wild animal. I don't like to stay caged up in my office all day.
calamitous adj. distressful, dire, tragic, disastrous, destructive, awful, devastating, fatal, deadly, pernicious, cataclysmic, catastrophic, ruinous, dreadful, terrible: They seemed unaware of the calamitous consequences of what they were doing to the environment.
calculating adj. shrewd, conniving, crafty, sly, scheming, designing, Machiavellian, manipulative, canny, contriving: She is a calculating woman, who knows what she wants and manoeuvres people to help her get it.
calibrate v. adjust, graduate; standardize: This balance has been dropped on the floor, and you'll have to calibrate it again.
callous adj. hardened, thick-skinned, unfeeling, uncaring, insensible, insensitive, hard, hard-hearted, tough, hardbitten, cold, cold-hearted, heartless, indifferent, unsympathetic, apathetic, Colloq hard-boiled, hard-nosed: It was callous of Gerry to go off to the snooker club right after the funeral.
camp n. 1 camping-ground, camp-ground, bivouac, encampment, camp-site; settlement; camping-site, Brit caravan site: The name 'Chester' derives from Latin castrum, meaning 'camp', for the city was originally the site of a Roman camp. Is there a camp where we can stay overnight? 2 faction, set, coterie, clique, group, party, body: On this issue, the politicians are divided into two camps. --v. 3 encamp, pitch camp, tent: Our family likes to go camping in the mountains during the summer. 4 lodge, bivouac, settle: The platoon camped by the river. 5 camp out. Slang crash: Mind if I camp out in your pad tonight?
cancellation n. 1 cancelling, annulment, nullification, rescinding, voiding, rescission, revocation, abolition, abandonment, withdrawal, abrogation; repeal: We found a hotel room in the end because of a late cancellation. 2 invalidation, revocation, abolition, discontinuance, termination, suppression: If you fail to pay the premium, the policy is subject to cancellation. 3 elimination, abolition; stoppage, cessation: Owing to the storm, some trains are subject to cancellation.
candy n. sweet(s), bon-bon(s), sweetmeat(s), confectionery: Eating candy can be bad for your teeth.
canvass v. 1 solicit, electioneer, campaign, poll, US and Canadian stump: The candidates will be canvassing in farming areas next week. 2 survey, poll, study, analyse, examine, investigate, interview, question: The statisticians are not satisfied that enough women were canvassed to provide an accurate sample. --n. 3 solicitation, campaign: The party's canvass of rural areas for new supporters was not very successful. 4 survey, study, investigation, poll, examination, tally: A canvass of editors shows they have a conservative view of the language. canyon n. gorge, ravine, gully or gulley, pass, defile, Brit dialect gill or ghyll, US and Canadian coule, gulch; US gap, arroyo: The canyon created by the river is more than a thousand feet deep.
capacity n. 1 volume, content, size, dimensions; room, space: What is the capacity of this bottle in litres? The car is of sufficient capacity to hold only four adults. 2 potential, ability, capability, competence, intelligence, wit, brain(s), talent, aptitude, acumen, understanding, sense, judgement, perspicacity, perceptiveness, perception, mother wit, intellect, genius, skill, gift, faculty, power, potential, Colloq chiefly US right stuff, the goods: They don't yet have the capacity to absorb advanced theory. 3 position, condition, character, place, post, role, job, office, duty, responsibility, province, sphere, function; Law competency, qualification: She has every right to sign cheques in her capacity as director.
capital n. 1 head, top, crown, cap: The column was surmounted by a finely carved capital. 2 seat (of government): Winnipeg is the capital of Manitoba. 3 money, assets, funds, finance(s), cash, wherewithal; wealth, means, property, resources, savings, principal: My capital is invested in land at the moment. 4 majuscule, upper case, large letter, initial, Colloq cap: The chapter titles should be set in capitals. --adj. 5 chief, main, major, important, cardinal, central, principal, prime, primary, paramount, pre-eminent, foremost, leading: Our capital responsibility is to ensure the passengers' safety. 6 first-class, first-rate, excellent, superior, matchless, peerless, choice, select, outstanding, fine, superb, splendid, marvellous, extraordinary, Colloq smashing, great, super, Brit brill, Old-fashioned topping, top-hole, ripping, ripsnorting: Eating out tonight was a capital idea.
captivate v. enthral or US enthrall, enslave, fascinate, hypnotize, entrance, beguile, charm, enamour, enchant, bewitch, enrapture, dazzle, infatuate, attract, allure, seduce, win: Her beauty captivated film-goers everywhere.
car n. 1 (motor) vehicle, motor car, automobile, passenger car, Old-fashioned or slang motor; Chiefly US auto; Colloq jalopy, heap, pile, crate, machine, buggy, transport; Slang wheels: Borrow a car and drive down for the weekend. 2 (railway) carriage: The body was found in a sleeping car of the Orient Express.
careen v. heel over, keel over; US loosely career, sway, tip, pitch, veer, swerve, lurch: We hauled out the boat, careened her, and proceeded to caulk her seams.
careless adj. 1 unconcerned, untroubled, unworried, casual, indifferent, heedless, thoughtless, inconsiderate, uncaring, devil-may-care, irresponsible, cursory, lackadaisical, perfunctory: No one could approve of the careless way he treats his family. 2 inattentive, negligent, thoughtless, absent-minded, neglectful, remiss; unobservant, unthinking, imprudent, unmindful, incautious, unwary, reckless, slapdash, rash: Many of the errors come from being careless. 3 inaccurate, imprecise, inexact, incorrect, wrong, error-ridden, erroneous, Colloq sloppy: You won't get a good mark for such a careless paper. 4 unstudied, ingenuous, artless, casual, nonchalant: I dislike his careless way of dressing, but it does show some style.
carnage n. slaughter, butchery, massacre, blood bath, holocaust, killing, Shoah, Churban or Hurban: The battle was fought with much carnage on both sides.
carriage n. 1 (railway) coach, US car: We moved our belongings into the next carriage. 2 bearing, mien, air, manner, deportment, conduct, demeanour, attitude, posture, stance, presence, behaviour, comportment: His upright carriage immediately identified him as a military man. 3 freight, freightage, transportation, cartage, shipping; postage: Carriage is free within mainland Britain.
carte blanche n. licence, permission, sanction, free rein, authority, discretion: She was given carte blanche to spend the money any way she wished.
cash n. 1 money, currency, bills, notes, banknotes, change, hard cash or money, specie, coin of the realm, legal tender, Slang moolah, dough, bread, loot, spondulicks or spondulix, Brit lolly, ready, readies, US scratch, gelt, mazuma: The shop accepts only cash, no charge cards. --v. 2 Also, cash in. change, sell, liquidate, exchange; realize: She cashed some bonds to pay off the overdraft.
caste n. (social) class, rank, order, level, stratum, standing, position, station, status, estate: The women of her caste practised suttee.
casualty n. 1 disaster, catastrophe, calamity, accident, mischance, misadventure, mishap: The company insures against casualties at sea. 2 a victim, fatality, Colloq statistic: I'm afraid that Jeff was a casualty of last year's cut in personnel. She was only one of thousands of casualties of the earthquake. b Usually, casualties. Chiefly military wounded, injured, missing, missing in action, dead, fatalities, US MIA(s), body count: The casualties were mounting.
categorical adj. direct, explicit, express, unconditional, firm, positive, unreserved, unrestricted, absolute, outright, downright, unequivocal, unambiguous, specific; emphatic, unqualified, authoritative, dogmatic, Technical apodeictic or apodictic: His denial was clear and categorical.
catholic adj. universal, general, inclusive, all-inclusive, broad, wide, comprehensive, widespread, all-embracing, eclectic, liberal: Her musical tastes are catholic - they range from Bach to Berry (Chuck, that is).
caution n. 1 warning, admonition, admonishment, caveat, monition, advice, counsel, injunction: A word of caution is needed before you go ahead. 2 wariness, prudence, care, vigilance, forethought, heed, watchfulness, alertness, circumspection, discretion: Drivers should exercise extra caution in bad weather. --v. 3 warn, admonish, forewarn, tip (off); advise, counsel: Some employees had to be cautioned about arriving on time.
cavity n. pit, hole, hollow, opening, crater, gap; space: The limestone is marked with a pattern of cavities. Vowel sounds resonate in the oral cavity.
celebrant n. officiant, official; priest: The celebrant at High Mass was the archbishop.
celebrity n. 1 renown, fame, repute, reputation, prominence, eminence, distinction, prestige, famousness, popularity, notability, stardom; notoriety: Dr Johnson was not enriched in proportion to his celebrity. 2 notable, dignitary, star, luminary, toast of the town, personage, name, personality, superstar: The hotel lobby was packed with celebrities from show business.
cell n. chamber, room, apartment, cubicle; stall: As a friar, he lived in a small, plain cell for most of his life.
centre n. 1 middle, core, heart; nucleus, focal point, hub, pivot, nave; mid-point: He stood in the centre of the road. We journeyed to the centre of the earth. The tower is at the centre of the market square. The amount to be paid was at the centre of the controversy. Mark the centre of the line. --v. 2 focus, converge, meet, concentrate, cluster: The business of the meeting centred on the nomination of a chairperson. All my hopes were centred on getting the job as supervisor.
certain adj. 1 determined, set, fixed, predetermined, decided, settled, firm, stable, invariable, established, standard, constant, unchanging, steady, unfluctuating, non-fluctuating, traditional: He agreed to pay a certain yearly rent. She met him there every day at a certain time. 2 sure, unerring, definite, dependable, trustworthy, unfailing, infallible, reliable, assured, guaranteed: How do you know that the dividend is certain? 3 sure, inevitable, inescapable, destined, predestined, ineluctable, inexorable, unavoidable, definite, firm; unchanging, changeless, infallible, permanent, Colloq on the cards, a sure thing, US in the cards: It is not always certain that justice will triumph. Nothing is certain but death and taxes. 4 indubitable, indisputable, undisputed, undoubted, sure, doubtless, unequivocal, incontestable, undeniable, incontrovertible, absolute, irrefutable, unquestionable, unquestioned, unarguable, valid: It is certain only that we exist, according to Descartes. 5 confident; assured, sure, positive, definite: I am certain that she did not steal the money. 6 specific, particular, definite; unnamed, unspecified, non-specified, non-specific: He gave us certain information which we now have reason to doubt.
chaff n. 1 banter, raillery, ridicule, badinage, joking, teasing, twitting, Colloq kidding, ragging, Chiefly US and Canadian joshing: After the speech, he had to put up with a lot of good-natured chaff from the audience. --v. 2 banter, tease, twit, rail at, Colloq kid, rag, Chiefly US and Canadian josh: When he was in the navy, his family chaffed him for having a girl in every port.
chamber n. 1 assembly, body, legislature, judicature, house, congress, judiciary, senate, diet; consortium: She is entitled to sit in the Upper Chamber. 2 meeting-hall, reception room, assembly room: The council chamber was packed with people. 3 compartment, niche, nook, cavity: We hid the gold in a small chamber in the cave. 4 room, apartment; bedroom, bedchamber: On the first floor are the magnificent royal chambers.
changeable adj. 1 variable, mutable, protean, inconstant, unstable, unsettled, shifting, uncertain, irregular, uneven, unpredictable, labile, capricious, erratic, fickle, unreliable, undependable, mercurial, volatile: The weather has been changeable for the past week. 2 alterable, modifiable, transformable, convertible: Their meeting-places were changeable and known only to them.
chaos n. formlessness, disorder, confusion; pandemonium, bedlam, turmoil, tumult; entropy: The universe arose out of chaos. If you want to see chaos, look in any teenager's bedroom. There was chaos as the bank closed its doors and ceased trading.
characteristic adj. 1 typical, representative; emblematic, symbolic, distinctive, idiosyncratic, symptomatic: How characteristic it is of them to refuse to go to the dance! These subjects are characteristic of the early Impressionists. --n. 2 mark, trait, attribute, feature, quality, property, peculiarity, idiosyncrasy, character, earmark: It is a characteristic of bees to swarm.
charitable adj. 1 generous, liberal, bountiful, munificent, unselfish, open-handed, magnanimous, philanthropic, public-spirited, unsparing, eleemosynary: Despite her income, Irena has always been most charitable when it comes to worthwhile causes. 2 well-disposed, kindly, kind, beneficent, benevolent, well-wishing, lenient, tolerant, forgiving, indulgent, understanding, compassionate, humane, sympathetic, considerate, well-meaning, good: They took a charitable view of the matter and decided not to press charges.
charmer n. enchanter, enchantress, sorcerer, sorceress, magician; vamp, siren, Circe, Cleopatra, Lorelei, temptress, seductress; seducer, Romeo, Valentino, Don Juan, Lothario, Casanova, lady-killer, ladies' man; flatterer; smooth talker, Colloq (big-time) operator, con artist or man, Old-fashioned smoothie, wolf: Charlotte has run off with some charmer she met at a party.
chaste adj. 1 pure, virginal, virgin, celibate, abstinent, continent, virtuous, undefiled, stainless, unstained, unsullied, unblemished, decent, clean, good, wholesome, moral: Only a knight who was wholly chaste would find the Grail. 2 subdued, severe, restrained, unadorned, austere, unembellished, simple, pure, undecorated, clean: In some respects, modern architecture emulates the chaste style of the ancient Egyptians.
chat n. 1 conversation, colloquy, talk, small talk, gossip, palaver, chit-chat, tte--tte, heart-to-heart, Colloq gab, Chiefly Brit chin-wag, confab, Brit witter, natter, US and Canadian rap, gabfest, bull session: We'd get together for a chat every now and then. --v. 2 converse, gossip, talk, chit-chat, Colloq gab, chew the fat or the rag, jaw, Brit witter, natter; Slang US and Canadian rap, bullshit: We were just chatting when I smelt something burning. 3 Brit chat up. flirt or dally with, persuade, induce, prevail upon, tempt, lure, entice, inveigle, seduce, proposition: Rick chats up every girl he meets.
check v. 1 stop, arrest, stay, halt, obstruct, block, limit; retard, slow, brake, curb, hinder, hamper, impede, thwart: They are trying to check the spread of the disease in West Africa. 2 restrain, control, repress, stay, inhibit, contain, curb, restrict: The animal population is checked only by availability of food. 3 authenticate, verify, confirm, substantiate, validate, corroborate, check into, check out, check up on: Please check his story to make sure he's not lying. 4 enquire about or after or into, check into, check (up) on, examine, investigate, inspect, make sure of, verify, monitor, test, study, scrutinize: You'd best check the temperature in the kiln. 5 correspond, coincide, agree, jibe, tally, conform, check out, fit, mesh; compare: His alibi doesn't check with the witness's statement. 6 check in. arrive, report: We check in for work at 0800. 7 check in or into. register, sign in or on, enrol, log in: We checked into the hotel. 8 check into. investigate, check out, check up on, verify, check: The detective checked into the backgrounds of all applicants. 9 check off. tick (off), mark, check: Check off the names in red. 10 check out. a depart, leave; go: He checked out of the hotel and took a taxi to the airport. b investigate, research, explore, enquire into, look into or at or over, scrutinize, examine, inspect, probe, survey, check up on, check, check into, check over: You had best check out her references before hiring her. c pass, pass muster or scrutiny, meet approval, be verified, check: According to our records, his story checks out. d Slang cash in one's checks or chips, kick the bucket, croak: Sam checked out last week - heart attack, I think. 11 check over or out. review, verify, authenticate, check: Please check over my figures before I submit them to the accountant. 12 check up (on). a investigate, do research, probe, explore, check: I don't know her name, but I'll check up and let you know. b determine, discover, find out, look into, check: I want you to check up on where they eat lunch. --n. 13 stop, stopping, cease, surcease, hesitation, cessation, stoppage, interruption, break, pause, balk or baulk, discontinuity, discontinuation, discontinuance, suspension: The visitors continued to arrive without check, far into the night. 14 restraint, repression, inhibition, limitation, curb, restriction, control, constraint, hindrance, obstruction, impediment, damper: He keeps a good check on the foreman. This tax will serve as a check against free trade. 15 control, test, inspection, examination, scrutiny, verification, substantiation, authentication, confirmation, validation, corroboration: We do a thorough check on the quality of every product. 16 US tick, mark, dash, X: Place a check in the box alongside your choice. 17 token, receipt, counterfoil, stub; voucher, chit, certificate: Don't lose your baggage check. 18 chip, counter: Let's cash in our checks and go home. 19 Chiefly US bill, tab, charge(s): In the USA, people generally add 15 per cent to the check for a tip.
chequered adj. 1 chequer-board, checked; patchwork; plaid, tartan: You cannot use a chequered tablecloth for a formal dinner. 2 variegated, diversified, alternating, variable, good and bad, varying, fluctuating, up and down; uncertain: David Williams had a rather chequered career in the army.
chic adj. 1 stylish, fashionable, la mode, modish, smart, tasteful, elegant; sophisticated; Colloq trendy: Susanna was always a chic dresser. --n. 2 style, fashion, good taste, tastefulness, elegance, stylishness, modishness: There is an air of chic about him that repels many men but attracts many women.
child n. 1 offspring, descendant, son or daughter, little one, youngster, Formal progeny, issue, Colloq kid, nipper, Slang Brit sprog: How many children do you have? 2 foetus, newborn, neonate, infant, baby, babe, toddler, boy or girl, lad or lass, stripling, youngster, youth, juvenile, adolescent, teenager, young man or woman, young gentleman or lady, Chiefly Scots laddie or lassie: No children were born in the village for five years. These miscreants are mere children, who should not be punished as adults.
chill n. 1 coldness, cold, coolness, sharpness, nip: We put on our jackets to ward off the chill of the evening. 2 cold, flu, influenza, (la or the) grippe, ague, Technical coryza, Colloq (the) sniffles, sneezles and wheezles: Take off those wet clothes before you catch a chill. 3 coolness, iciness, frigidity, aloofness; unfriendliness, hostility: Mrs Marlow felt the chill in the stare of her husband's ex-wife. --adj. 4 cold, cool, numbing, chilling, chilly, raw, penetrating, icy, frigid, wintry, frosty, arctic, polar, glacial: A chill easterly wind made me shiver. 5 shivering, chilled (through), numb, numbed, numbing, benumbed: She kissed me with a lip more chill than stone. 6 cold, cold-blooded, aloof, indifferent, insensitive, unemotional, unsympathetic; chilly: The prison commandant viewed the corpses with chill detachment. --v. 7 cool, freeze, refrigerate, ice: The fruit tastes better if it has been chilled. 8 dampen, dispirit, depress, deject, dishearten, distress: The news of mother's illness chilled us all.
chip n. 1 fragment, piece, shard or sherd, splinter, flake, sliver, scrap, morsel, bit: A chip of slate rattled down off the roof. 2 counter, marker, token; plaque, US check: He put his chip on number 14. --v. 3 chisel, whittle, hew: He chipped away at the stone till it fitted perfectly into the hole. 4 chip in. a contribute; participate: All the neighbours chipped in to pay for the street decorations. b interrupt, break in, intrude, interfere, intercede, interpose, Colloq chime in: Clive chipped in with his usual silly comment.
chivalry n. knight-errantry; honour, bravery, courage, courtesy, politeness, courtliness, gallantry, nobility, virtuousness, righteousness, justness, fairness, impartiality, equitableness: All the noble sentiments blended together constitute chivalry.
choosy adj. selective, discriminating, discerning, fastidious, finicky or finical, particular, fussy, demanding, exacting, difficult, hard to please , Colloq picky: If you weren't so choosy, you wouldn't have to pay so much.
chronicle n. 1 record, history, diary, chronology, account, narrative, description, report, register, annal(s), archive: She has written a chronicle of the events leading up to the War of Jenkins' Ear. --v. 2 record, register, list, enter, archive, document, describe; tell, recount, narrate, report, relate, retail: In the Iliad Homer chronicled the legends of the Trojan War.
chum n. 1 friend, comrade, companion; confidant(e), familiar; fellow, colleague, Colloq pal, sidekick, Chiefly Brit and Australian and New Zealand mate, Chiefly US and Canadian buddy: I invited a chum of mine for the weekend. --v. 2 Often, chum around. associate, Colloq pal (around): Yes, we used to chum around together in the army. 3 chum up with. ally (oneself) with, be friendly with, go with, associate with, Colloq pal (up or about or around) with, US team up with: Lionel chummed up with Ashley to go swimming.
circuit n. 1 compass, circumference, perimeter, periphery, girth, border, boundary, edge, limit, ambit, margin, outline, confine(s), bound, pale: The circuit of the area amounts to 72 miles. 2 round, tour, ambit, circle, orbit, course, lap: The rider completed the circuit of the ranch, mending the fence as he went.
circumstance n. 1 Often, circumstances. situation, condition(s), state (of affairs); status, station, resources, income, finances: In the circumstances, all leave is cancelled. Each person will be helped according to the individual circumstance. 2 event, incident, episode, occurrence, affair, happening, occasion: Any unforeseen circumstance could set off a shooting war.
civil adj. 1 civilian, non-military, lay, laic, laical, secular: There is a distinction between civil law and canon law. 2 domestic, internal; public: The economic conditions have led to civil strife. 3 polite, courteous, respectful, well-mannered, proper, civilized, cordial, formal, courtly, urbane, polished, refined: They are civil enough, but I always have the feeling they really despise tourists.
claim n. 1 demand, assertion, request, requisition, petition, application; requirement: As far as the land is concerned, his claim has been denied. 2 right(s), call, title: What possible claim could the Miss Dashwoods have on his generosity? --v. 3 demand, seek, ask or call (for), exact, insist (on or upon), require, command, be entitled to: She has every right to claim a share in the estate. 4 declare, assert, allege, state, put or set forth, affirm, contend, maintain: These measurements lack the degree of accuracy claimed for them. She claims that she was the first person to ring the police.
clap v. 1 applaud; cheer, acclaim: Everyone clapped when the boxer climbed into the ring. 2 slap, strike, pat: He clapped me on the shoulder in the friendliest way. 3 put, place, slap, fling, toss, cast , Colloq stick: He had no sooner set foot in the town when he was clapped in jail. 4 impose, lay, apply: The magistrate clapped a severe fine on me for speeding. --n. 5 crack, slap, report, crash, bang, snap: There was a loud clap of thunder, making the house shake. clapper n. tongue: We attached a rope to the clapper of the bell.
clasp n. 1 fastener, fastening, hook, catch, clip, pin, brooch: The ends were fastened together with a diamond clasp. 2 embrace, hug, hold, grasp, grip: He held her tight in his clasp. --v. 3 fasten, secure, close, hold, hook, clip, pin, clamp: The robe was clasped by an emerald pin. 4 hold, embrace, take hold of, hug, enclose, envelop: The beggar clasped my hand, his eyes seeking mine in piteous supplication. 5 grab, grasp, seize, clutch, grip: They clasped hands in friendship.
claw n. 1 talon, nail: The cat had scratched her badly with its claws. --v. 2 scratch, tear, scrape, rake, slash: She clawed at his face to break his grip on her throat. 3 grapple, grab, catch, scrape, scrabble: He tried to climb up the embankment, clawing at the steep wall.
clearance n. 1 space, gap, hole, interval, separation, room, margin, leeway, allowance: You must allow a clearance of 2 millimetres. 2 approval, endorsement, authorization, consent; licence, leave, permission: He cannot get security clearance with his prison record.
clerical adj. 1 ecclesiastical, churchly, pastoral, sacerdotal, priestly, hieratic, rabbinical, ministerial, monastic, apostolic, prelatic, papal, pontifical, episcopal, canonical: He was wearing his clerical vestments. 2 white-collar, office, professional, secretarial, stenographic, accounting, bookkeeping: He runs the shop and his wife has the clerical responsibilities.
clientele n. clients, patrons, customers; custom, business, trade, patronage, following: What sort of clientele do you expect to attract?
climb v. 1 Also, climb up. mount, ascend, go up, scale, shin (up), clamber up, US shinny (up): In one of the games we had to climb a greased pole. Two Japanese teams have climbed Mount Everest. 2 creep, trail, twine; grow: The ivy has climbed all over the garden wall. 3 rise, arise, ascend, go up, mount; advance: Watch the smoke climb into the sky. 4 climb along. creep, edge, clamber, crawl, inch: The cat burglar climbed along the ledge till he reached the window. 5 climb down. a descend, go down: We shall need a rope to climb down from here. b Usually, climb down from. retreat (from), withdraw (from), back away (from), give up, abandon, renounce: He has climbed down from his earlier position regarding women in the priesthood. --n. 6 grade, incline, route, pitch; ascent; descent: It was a steep climb to Camp Four.
clip v. 1 clasp, fasten, fix, attach, hold, clinch; staple: Please clip these papers together. --n. 2 clasp, fastener: That clip isn't strong enough to hold all these papers.
clod n. 1 lump, mass, gob, wad, hunk, chunk; piece of sod or turf; Colloq glob: A clod of earth was stuck between the spikes of my golf shoes. 2 idiot, fool, dolt, blockhead, simpleton, dunce, dope, oaf, Neanderthal, lout, ass, boor, clown, ninny, ninny-hammer, bumpkin, clodhopper, Slang vegetable, US and Canadian jerk: He felt a bit of a clod standing there with no idea which way to go.
clothe v. 1 dress, attire, garb, apparel, outfit, fit out or up, accoutre or US also accouter, Brit kit out or up, Colloq tog up or out: He earns barely enough to clothe and feed his family. 2 endow, invest, caparison, endue: They tried to clothe their transactions with the raiment of honesty.
clue n. 1 hint, suspicion, trace, intimation, suggestion, inkling, indication, pointer, lead, tip, tip-off, evidence, information, advice; key, answer, indicator: There is no clue pointing to anyone in particular. Any clue to the solution of the mystery disappeared in the fire. --v. 2 clue someone in or Brit also up. hint, suggest, imply, intimate, inform, advise, indicate: She clued us in as to who might have sent the letter.
clutch v. 1 seize, snatch, grab, grasp, take or lay hold of; hold; US snag: She clutched feebly to the rope before losing her grip and plunging into the abyss below. He clutched the child to his bosom. --n. 2 clutches. a grasp at, hold; embrace: We watched as the gazelle deftly eluded the cheetah's clutches. b influence, control, power, domination, dominance, possession: He fell into the clutches of the Triads.
coarse adj. 1 rough, uneven, scratchy, prickly, bristly; crude, rough-hewn, unfinished, unrefined: He has a three-day coarse growth of beard. The surface on the furniture is still too coarse. 2 rude, boorish, loutish, crude, ill-mannered, unpolished, rough, uncouth, impolite, uncivil, unrefined: Nigel's behaviour is coarse, and he spits when he talks. 3 rude, indecent, improper, indelicate, obscene, lewd, vulgar, gross, smutty, dirty, filthy, foul, offensive, lascivious, ribald, bawdy; foul-mouthed: Don't use that kind of coarse language with me. 4 inferior, low-quality, second-rate, shoddy, tawdry, trashy; kitschy: That shop stocks only the coarsest merchandise.
cocky adj. overconfident, arrogant, haughty, conceited, self-important, egotistical, proud, vain, prideful, cocksure, saucy, cheeky, brash: Since she won the beauty contest, Claire has been entirely too cocky.
cog n. 1 tooth, gear-tooth, sprocket, ratchet: Stripping the gears means breaking the cogs off them. 2 underling, pawn, subordinate, nonentity, zero, cipher or cypher, nothing, nobody, small fry: He's only a small cog in the organization - we're after the big wheel himself.
coil v. 1 wind, twist, coil, snake, wrap, enwrap, spiral, Nautical fake or flake (down): The rope is coiled round a capstan. --n. 2 winding(s), circle(s), loop, whorl, spiral, helix, twist: His foot caught in the coil of rope and he was carried overboard.
coincidental adj. chance, lucky or unlucky, fortuitous, accidental, unexpected, unpredicted, unpredictable, unforeseen: It was entirely coincidental that we were on the same train.
collaborate v. cooperate, join (forces), work together, team up: We collaborated in writing both the lyrics and music.
collected adj. calm, serene, controlled, cool, sedate, composed, nonchalant, poised, unruffled, unperturbed, at ease, comfortable, tranquil, unexcited; imperturbable; confident: Considering what she's just gone through, Tanya seems quite collected.
collision n. smash-up, smash, crash, wreck, pile-up, Colloq Brit prang; US crack-up: There has been a major collision on the Tring road.
combat n. 1 fight, encounter, engagement, duel, battle, conflict, war, warfare; skirmish: The two men were locked in single combat. 2 struggle, contest, strife, controversy, dispute, quarrel, disagreement, altercation, vendetta, feud: There was endless combat between father and son. 3 opposition, difference, confrontation: The combat between good and evil can never end. 4 action, fighting, battle, war: He was in combat on three occasions. Have you seen any combat? --v. 5 fight, (do) battle, war, clash, contend, duel, joust, wrestle, come to blows, spar, grapple (with): The soldiers are combating hand to hand in the trenches. 6 fight, struggle or strive against, contest, oppose, defy, enter the lists against, withstand: There was broad support for measures to combat crime and pollution.
comedian n. humorist, comic, wit, wag, jokesmith; clown, buffoon, funny man, funster, jester, fool, zany, merry andrew: The new comedian at the variety show is very funny.
comfortable adj. 1 at ease, easy, tranquil, serene, relaxed, contented, untroubled, undisturbed: After the operation, the nurses did everything they could to make me comfortable. 2 well off, carefree, insouciant, contented, satisfied; self-satisfied, complacent, smug: They don't have a lot of money, but they're comfortable enough. 3 likeable, easy, congenial, amiable, cordial, warm, pleasant, agreeable, enjoyable, relaxing: Daphne is a very comfortable sort of person to be with. 4 suitable, acceptable, adequate, satisfactory, reasonable: The radio was on very loud, so I turned down the volume to a more comfortable level.
commence v. 1 begin, enter upon, start, initiate, launch, embark on or upon: Tomorrow morning, we commence the ascent of Mont Blanc. 2 begin, start, open: The ceremonies are about to commence. 3 begin, start, initiate, launch, inaugurate, establish: We commenced operations at this plant last year.
committee n. council, board, cabinet, panel, body, commission: They have set up a committee to oversee park planning.
companion n. 1 fellow, associate, comrade, colleague, confrre, Colloq chiefly Brit and Australian mate, US and Canadian buddy: For ten years they had been constant companions. 2 vade-mecum, manual, handbook, guide, reference book, enchiridion: They publish a pocket companion listing the month's events. 3 escort, chaperon(e), attendant, (in Spain, Portugal) duenna: Aunt Dinah is too old to be alone, so we have engaged a companion for her.
comparison n. 1 contrasting, contrast, juxtaposing, juxtaposition, balancing, balance, weighing: His comparison of the candidates is prejudiced. 2 match, similarity, resemblance, likeness, comparability, relation, relationship, commensurability, kinship, point of agreement or correspondence: There is no comparison between a racing car and a family car.
compete v. contend, vie, struggle, strive, conflict, joust, fence; fight, battle, clash, collide: They are competing to see who will become chairman of the company. These two designs compete with one another for the viewer's attention.
compile v. collect, put together, gather, accumulate, assemble, amass, collate, organize, order, systematize; anthologize, compose: He has compiled a large butterfly collection. Every year she compiles a volume of the best stories.
complete adj. 1 entire, whole, intact, uncut, unbroken, undivided, unabridged, full, undiminished, unabated, unreduced: The complete works of Dickens are available in paperback. They performed the complete opera, a six-hour marathon. 2 finished, ended, concluded, over, done, accomplished, terminated; settled, executed, performed: The company's figures are not yet complete. When will your building plan be complete? 3 entire, total, thorough, absolute, utter, unqualified, unmixed, unalloyed, pure, unmitigated, rank: I attribute the disaster to a complete breakdown of communication, together with the complete incompetence of the site manager. 4 perfect, consummate, exemplary, ideal, model, superior, superlative, superb, faultless, flawless: Her dissertation is a work of complete scholarship. --v. 5 conclude, finish, end, bring to an end, accomplish, achieve, do, Colloq wrap up; finalize: He stopped after completing ten ciruits of the track. Have you completed the prospectus? 6 round out, round off, perfect; crown, culminate: The unit was completed by the addition of five platoons. A golden cupola completed the top of the dome.
complicate v. 1 mix up, entangle, snarl, tangle, confound, muddle, confuse: You only complicate matters by bringing up the question of religion in a discussion of money. 2 make complicated or complex, make involved or intricate, make a shambles or mess or muddle of, mess up, Colloq screw up: The phenomena of tides and currents greatly complicate coastwise navigation.
complimentary adj. 1 laudatory, commendatory, encomiastic, panegyrical, eulogistic, congratulatory, flattering: The duke was most complimentary about my sculpture. 2 free, gratis, on the house: The shoehorn is complimentary when you buy a pair of shoes.
compound v. 1 put together, combine, mix, concoct, compose, make (up), formulate, blend: They compound curry powder from different spices. 2 blend, merge, coalesce, combine, unite, fuse or US also fuze, come or go together: Sometimes two words compound to form one, as in 'ingrown', 'outgrow', and 'uptake'. 3 aggravate, intensify, exacerbate, heighten, augment, add to, worsen, increase; enhance, multiply: Demanding your money back now will only compound the problem. --adj. 4 intricate, complex, involved, complicated; composite, multiple, multiform, multifaceted, Technical parasynthetic, parathetic: The compound eye of the fly / Lets it see far better than I. A compound sentence is composed of two or more clauses joined by one or more coordinating conjunctions, express or understood. --n. 5 composite, blend, synthesis, combination, consolidation, Technical parasynthesis, parathesis; mixture, amalgam, alloy, merging, merger, mix: Table salt is a compound of the metallic element sodium and the gaseous element chlorine. 'Slithy' is a compound of 'slimy' and 'writhe'.
compunction n. 1 remorse, contrition, regret, uneasiness of mind, pang or pricking of conscience, self-reproach: He has no compunction about hurting your feelings. 2 hesitation, reluctance, reserve, disinclination, qualm, misgiving, unwillingness, fear: She has no compunction about speaking her mind.
conceit n. 1 vanity, pride, egotism, self-esteem, self-admiration, self-love, narcissism, vainglory, amour propre; arrogance: His conceit is matched only by his incompetence. 2 fancy, whim, caprice: Some have a conceit their drink tastes better / In an outlandish cup than their own. 3 elaborate figure (of speech), affectation, strained or far-fetched metaphor: A conceit would be calling the waves 'nodding hearse-plumes'.
conception n. 1 birth, beginning, genesis, inception, commencement, emergence, start, inauguration, initiation, launch, launching, origin, origination, formation, formulation, introduction: We were excited to be in at the conception of the scheme. 2 idea, notion, inkling, clue, concept; ide reu; understanding, knowledge, appreciation, comprehension: He has no conception of what is involved in maintaining a yacht. 3 design, plan, scheme, proposal, outline: Transporting a building from another site instead of constructing one was a bold conception.
concise adj. brief, terse, laconic, compact, direct, succinct, epigrammatic, cogent, pithy, compendious, summary, epigrammatic, trenchant, compressed, condensed, short; shortened, abridged, curtailed, abbreviated: He gave a concise summary of the findings. This is a concise edition of the dictionary.
condescending adj. patronizing, belittling, disdainful, contemptuous, pompous, overbearing, high-handed, imperious, snobbish, haughty, Colloq snooty, Brit toffee-nosed; Slang snotty: He thinks he's better than everyone, and I can't stand his condescending manner.
conference n. meeting, convention, symposium, congress, seminar, forum, colloquium; discussion, talk, colloquy, US bull session: In 1988, the conference was held in Budapest.
confidential adj. private, secret, intimate, classified, Colloq hush-hush: These confidential papers must never be out of your possession.
conform v. 1 comply (with), follow, observe, obey, respect, abide by, adapt or adjust (to): We agree to conform to the rules of the club. 2 accord (with), agree (with), concur (with), coincide (with), correspond (with), harmonize (with), square (with), match, tally (with), fit (in with), be consistent (with), be in accord or in accordance (with): Their behaviour did not conform with what is expected in such circles. The two plans do not conform.
congested adj. (over)crowded, blocked (up), jammed, crammed, plugged, stopped or stuffed (up), choked: The police are trying to deal with traffic at congested intersections.
conquer v. 1 overcome, vanquish, beat, defeat, subdue, crush, subjugate: The Moors conquered most of Spain. 2 capture, seize, win, gain, acquire, obtain; occupy, annex, overrun: They conquered the territory by force of arms. 3 overcome, triumph or prevail over, beat, surmount, master, win out (over): He has finally conquered the habit of biting his fingernails.
conscious adj. 1 aware, awake, alert: I was conscious of an eerie presence. The victim of the attack is now conscious. 2 deliberate, intentional, purposive, purposeful, wilful, studied: Lydia has been making a conscious effort to be friendlier to me.
conservative adj. 1 reactionary, right, right-wing, rightist, Tory: In his conservative view, no change is ever for the better. 2 cautious, careful, prudent, moderate, temperate, middle-of-the-road, sober, stable; unprogressive, orthodox, traditional, conformist, hidebound, conventional, standard, fundamentalist, true-blue, dyed in the wool: The conservative approach would be to study the problem before making a change. The conservative members voted against electing certain members to the club. --n. 3 reactionary, rightist, right-winger, Tory, fundamentalist; moderate, middle-of-the-roader: He's a conservative and favours a classical education. conserve v. 1 keep, preserve, hold on to, save, spare, reserve: Conserve your energy for later, when we get near the top. 2 preserve, maintain, keep up, take care of: These buildings should be conserved for later generations.
consideration n. 1 regard, concern, attentiveness, solicitude, thoughtfulness, compassion, kindness, kindliness, kind-heartedness, considerateness, respect, caring, care: Out of consideration for your father, you should complete your studies. 2 reward, compensation, remuneration, fee, payment, recompense, emolument, tip, gratuity, pourboire, baksheesh or backsheesh; honorarium: The boy will look after your luggage for a small consideration, madam. 3 thought, deliberation, reflection, contemplation, rumination, cogitation, study, examination: After some consideration, we have decided that we will finance the project.
console v. comfort, soothe, calm, assuage, solace, cheer (up): Ivan made an effort to console the grieving widow.
constant adj. 1 resolute, immovable, steadfast, firm, dependable, unshakeable or unshakable, determined, unswerving, undeviating, persevering, unwearying, unwearied, untiring, indefatigable, tireless, unflagging, unwavering, unfailing, unfaltering, persistent; loyal, true, tried and true, devoted, staunch, trusty, faithful: He was her constant companion during her troubles. 2 incessant, unceasing, ceaseless, perpetual, persistent, uninterrupted, steady, regular, invariable, unremitting, unvarying, relentless, unrelenting, continuous, continual; unending, endless, never-ending, non-stop, perennial, eternal, everlasting, Literary sempiternal: The constant pain almost made me cry out. Their constant bickering is getting on my nerves. 3 unchanging, unchanged, invariable, unvarying, fixed, uniform, unalterable, immutable, changeless, persistent: The numbers might change, but the ratio is constant.
consultant n. 1 physician, doctor, specialist, expert: You ought to get the opinion of another consultant. 2 adviser or advisor, expert, counsellor or US counselor: Our financial consultant tells us how to handle the company funds.
contain v. 1 hold, have in it; bear, carry: The capsule contained a deadly poison. 2 hold, have the capacity for, accommodate, admit, carry; seat: This bottle contains no more than a quart. The theatre can contain 200. 3 restrain, restrict, confine, repress, control, hold back or in, curb, bridle, keep under control, suppress, check, stifle: He could hardly contain himself when he learnt he had passed the examination.
contempt n. loathing, abhorrence, hatred, odium, hate; scorn, disdain, contumely, disgust: She has nothing but contempt for cowards.
content n. 1 pleasure, satisfaction, gratification, happiness, contentment, contentedness, felicity, delight: He kept on singing to his heart's content. 2 ease, comfort, tranquillity, serenity, peace, peacefulness, contentedness: I have a feeling of such content merely being with you. --adj. 3 pleased, satisfied, happy, delighted, contented, gratified, glad, cheerful; comfortable, fulfilled: I was quite content to be home once more. --v. 4 satisfy, please, gratify, soothe, cheer, gladden, delight: It contented him to be near her.
continual adj. constant, incessant, perpetual, non-stop, persistent, uninterrupted, regular, steady, unbroken, unceasing, ceaseless, constant, eternal, unremitting, interminable, endless, unending; Loosely continuous: She has this continual ringing in her ears.
contradictory adj. inconsistent, paradoxical, incongruous, conflicting, incompatible, discrepant; ambiguous, ambivalent: The witnesses' descriptions of the robbers are contradictory.
contribute v. 1 give, furnish, donate, bestow, grant, present, provide, supply: He contributed three paintings by Longchamp to the museum. They contributed generously to the restoration fund. 2 contribute to. add to, promote, advance, help, aid, support, forward, have a hand in, play a part or role in: They believe that poor parental supervision contributes to juvenile delinquency.
convalesce v. recover, improve, get better, recuperate: The doctor said I needed only a week to convalesce after the operation.
converge v. come or go together, meet, join, unite, merge, coincide; blend: The roads converge in the valley.
convert v. 1 change, modify, alter, transform, transmute, mutate, transfigure, transmogrify, remodel, remake, metamorphose: We converted our rowing-boat into a sailing dinghy. 2 proselytize, switch, change (over): To avoid the horrors of the Inquisition, many Spanish Jews converted to Catholicism. --n. 3 proselyte; neophyte, catechumen, disciple: Converts are often the most passionate believers.
cool adj. 1 chilly, chill, chilling, cooling, unheated; chilled, cold, refreshing, fresh: It's rather cool outside today. I'd prefer some cool lemonade. 2 calm, serene, collected, level-headed, quiet, unexcited, unemotional, undisturbed, unexcitable, unruffled, unflappable, cool-headed, relaxed, controlled, under control, self-possessed, self-controlled, unperturbed, phlegmatic, composed, imperturbable: He remains cool even in a crisis. 3 dispassionate, cold, cold-blooded, emotionless, deliberate, cold-hearted, calculated, wilful, premeditated, purposeful, purposive: It was clearly the cool act of a professional criminal. 4 uninvolved, distant, remote, aloof, detached, removed, uninterested, unconcerned, unsympathetic, apathetic, cold, cold-hearted, cold-blooded: How can you be so cool where human lives are concerned? 5 lukewarm, distant, uncordial, unfriendly, unsociable, unapproachable, standoffish, forbidding, unwelcoming, cold, frigid: After the affair, she was distinctly cool towards him. 6 bold, audacious, brazen, overconfident, presumptuous, shameless, unabashed, impertinent, impudent, insolent: I cannot account for the cool way he insulted his host. --n. 7 coolness, chill, chilliness, Colloq coolth: I shall have a sherry to ward off the cool of the evening. 8 aplomb, poise, sedateness, control, self-control, composure, sang-froid: He really lost his cool when she told him he was a lousy driver. --v. 9 chill, refrigerate, ice: Cool the pudding before serving. 10 diminish, reduce, lessen, abate, moderate: Her interest quickly cooled when she discovered he was married.
cope v. 1 manage, get along or by, make do, survive, subsist, come through: Even with seven children to care for, she copes very well. 2 cope with. be a match for, withstand, contend with or against, handle, deal with, dispose of: I cannot cope with all the work I have been given to do.
core n. 1 centre, heart, middle, nucleus, inside(s): Remove the core of the apple first. 2 essence, marrow, heart, pith, gist, quintessence, sum and substance: The core of the problem is her refusal to consider any alternative. --v. 3 pit, seed: The pie might have tasted better if you'd cored the apples first.
correction n. 1 improvement, emendation, rectification, redress, remedy, reparation, amendment; corrigendum: With these corrections, the work will be vastly better. 2 punishment, castigation, chastisement: He resented her continual correction of him for trivial things.
corrupt adj. 1 dishonest, untrustworthy, dishonourable, underhand(ed), venal, Colloq crooked: He got off by bribing a corrupt judge. 2 debased, depraved, perverted, subverted, evil, wicked, degenerate, degraded: The inhabitants practised a corrupt form of Christianity. --v. 3 debase, pervert, subvert, degrade, deprave, warp: A funds manager could easily be corrupted by all that money. 4 adulterate, contaminate, pollute, taint, defile, infect, spoil, poison: Drainage from the site has corrupted the purity of the water. 5 bribe, suborn, buy (off): He thought he knew a juror who might be corrupted.
cottage n. hut, shack, cabin, bungalow, shanty, Literary cot; US and Canadian lodge, chalet: She's going to stay at our cottage for a week.
counsellor n. adviser or advisor, counsel, lawyer, Brit counsellor-at-law, barrister, US counselor, counselor-at-law, attorney: We have retained Vestley and Stock as our counsellors.
counterfeit adj. 1 forged, fake, fraudulent, imitation, bogus, spurious, Colloq phoney or US also phony: The bank reported the counterfeit money to the police. 2 make-believe, sham, pretended, pretend, feigned, insincere, fake, faked, false, artificial, meretricious, pseudo, factitious, synthetic, unreal, simulated: You were warned about his counterfeit sincerity. --n. 3 fake, imitation, forgery, reproduction, Colloq phoney or US also phony: This is the original deed, that one is a counterfeit. --v. 4 forge, copy, reproduce, falsify, imitate; Slang hang paper: He made a living counterfeiting passports. 5 feign, pretend, simulate, put on, fake: The suspects have shown signs of wealth that are difficult to counterfeit.
courage n. bravery, valour, boldness, intrepidity, gallantry, dauntlessness, daring, fearlessness, heroism, nerve, Colloq grit, guts, pluck, spunk, US moxie, sand, Slang Brit bottle: She had the courage to face the two of them alone.
courtesy n. politeness, elegance, courtliness, politesse, courteousness, respect, respectfulness, good manners, formality, civility, ceremony: I much appreciated the courtesy with which they treated me.
cowardly adj. timid, fearful, frightened, afraid, scared, faint-hearted, timorous, chicken-hearted, chicken-livered, lily-livered, white-livered, craven, namby-pamby, dastardly, pusillanimous, vitelline, Slang yellow, yellow-bellied: The cowardly rascals ran from the battle.
crafty adj. artful, cunning, clever, shrewd, foxy, canny, wily, sly, scheming, calculating, designing, plotting, tricky, sneaky, deceitful, shifty, dodgy, guileful, insidious, double-dealing, two-faced, duplicitous, treacherous: That crafty beggar has made off with my life's savings.
crank n. 1 eccentric, character, oddity, Colloq nut; Slang Brit nutter, nutcase: Pay no attention to Jason, he's just a crank. 2 monomaniac, zealot, fanatic: The restaurant is patronized mainly by health-food cranks.
crawl v. 1 creep, worm, wriggle, wiggle, squirm; edge: A spider is crawling on your collar. 2 inch, creep, drag: For a solid hour the cars just crawled along at a snail's pace. 3 cower, cringe, grovel, toady, fawn: Don't worry, he'll soon come crawling, begging you to take him back. 4 teem, abound, swarm, be overrun or swamped: The scene of the crime crawled with police.
creation n. 1 beginning, origin, birth, start, inception, genesis, making, formation: The creation of the lake began with the damming of the stream. 2 the world, the universe, the cosmos: He was the most wicked man in the history of all creation.
credit n. 1 belief, faith, trust, credence: I don't give much credit to what they say. 2 creditation, acknowledgement or acknowledgment, attribution, ascription: Credit for inventing the telegraph goes to Guglielmo Marconi. 3 trust, confidence, faithfulness, reliability, trustworthiness, honesty, probity, dependability; solvency: Her credit rating at the bank is excellent. 4 honour, commendation, praise, tribute, acclaim, esteem, recognition, merit: The team's victory in the finals has brought credit to the school. --v. 5 believe, trust, hold accountable, put or place one's faith or confidence in, have faith or confidence in, rely on, accept, depend on or upon: If you credit the Bible, the world was created in six days. 6 ascribe, acknowledge, attribute, assign; impute: The goal was credited to Barnes.
crescent n. 1 demi-lune, semi-lune, lune, lunette: The moon's crescent hung low in the western sky. --adj. 2 crescent-shaped, demi-lune, semi-lune, biconcave, concavo-concave: For chopping, the chef uses a crescent blade that just fits into a curved wooden bowl.
crew n. group, company, band, troupe, party, gang, team, corps, body: We shall need a crew of twenty for tomorrow's job.
crippled adj. 1 disabled, lame, handicapped, incapacitated; weakened, weak, debilitated: He takes care of his crippled mother. The crippled party platform succumbed to attack from the far left. 2 damaged, immobilized, inoperative: The crew stayed with the crippled vessel.
criticism n. 1 judgement, evaluation, appraisal, analysis, assessment, estimation, valuation: Their criticism was generally favourable. 2 censure, disapproval, condemnation, disparagement: I was very upset by her criticism of my behaviour. 3 critique, review, commentary: My sister writes the theatre criticisms for the local paper.
crouch v. bend (down), squat (down), hunker down, stoop (down): If you crouch down, no one will see you in the bushes.
crude adj. 1 unrefined, raw, natural, original, unprocessed: Those are the prices of crude oil, not the petrol used in cars. 2 rough, unpolished, rudimentary, immature, undeveloped, primitive, unrefined, unfinished: At this stage, she has only a crude idea of the design. 3 rough, coarse, rude, unrefined, uncouth, crass, gross, rustic, uncivil: Don't you despise his crude manners? 4 blunt, brusque, unsophisticated, inconsiderate, tasteless, indelicate, offensive, improper, vulgar: How crude of him to ask her how long since her husband had 'croaked'!
crumble v. disintegrate, fragment, break apart, break up, shiver, come to pieces: Acid rain has caused the stone faade to crumble. In the face of the attack, his resolve crumbled.
crush n. 1 break, smash, crunch, pulverize, shiver, splinter, pound, grind: The vandals crushed the statue to bits with hammers. 2 crumple, wrinkle, crease, crinkle, rumple, mangle: The shirts came back crushed from the laundry. 3 squash, pulp, mash, squeeze, compress, press: The machine crushes the oranges and extracts the juice. 4 overcome, defeat, conquer, vanquish, beat, thrash; subdue, put down, quash, quell, overwhelm, squelch, suppress, repress: The title-holder crushed the challenger. The junta crushed the uprising without bloodshed. 5 abash, embarrass, shame, mortify, depress, devastate, humiliate, disgrace: She was really crushed when he refused to see her. --n. 6 press, pressure, crowd: When the fire alarm sounded, I was almost caught in the crush of the people trying to escape.
cuddle v. 1 snuggle up (to), nestle or huddle (against): She cuddled the baby closer to her. 2 caress, embrace, fondle, hug, pet, bill and coo, make love (to), Colloq neck, smooch, Australian and New Zealand smoodge or smooge, Slang US make out (with), watch the submarine races: The couple were cuddling in the back seat. --n. 3 hug, embrace, snuggle: Give us a cuddle, Janie.
cultivated adj. sophisticated, cultured, educated, refined, elegant, soign(e), civilized, polished, aristocratic, urbane, suave, cosmopolitan: She prefers to go out with cultivated older men.
curiosity n. 1 inquisitiveness, interest: His insatiable curiosity next led him to study astronomy. 2 snooping, prying, peeping, intrusiveness, meddlesomeness, interference, Colloq nosiness, Nosy Parkerism: Curiosity killed the cat. 3 curio, oddity, rarity, conversation piece, objet de virtu or vertu, objet d'art, found object; bric--brac or bric-a-brac, knick-knack, bauble, trinket, gewgaw: The shop sells curiosities, like goblets made from ostrich eggs. In those days, every house had a curiosity cabinet.
cursory adj. superficial, hasty, hurried, passing, quick, slapdash, perfunctory, rapid, summary: She gave the note a cursory glance and threw it away.
custody n. 1 care, custodianship, safe keeping, protection, charge, guardianship, keeping: She was granted custody of the children. 2 imprisonment, detention, incarceration, confinement: The police took three troublemakers into custody.
cut v. 1 gash, slash, slit; open: I cut my finger on the glass. 2 slice, cut off, carve: Please cut me a thick piece of steak. 3 Often, cut up. hurt, wound, pain, upset, grieve, distress, aggrieve, slight, insult, offend, affront: I was really all cut up by her nasty remarks. 4 trim, snip, lop, clip, crop, shorten, shear, chop off; mow; dock: The barber has cut too much off the sides. 5 abbreviate, shorten, crop, condense, abridge, edit, cut back, reduce, cut down; epitomize, abstract, digest, summarize, curtail: Cut this script to make it fit into the allotted time. 6 dilute, thin, water (down), weaken; degrade, adulterate: They cut the rum with water to make grog. 7 avoid, fail to attend, eschew: Cynthia cut classes three days this week. 8 lower, reduce, lessen, cut back (on), cut down (on), slash, diminish, decrease, retrench (on), curtail: We shall have to cut expenses if the company is to survive. 9 conclude, settle, agree: Once the deal was cut, there was no going back on it. 10 prepare, draw, write, sign: We'll have accounting cut your cheque and send it at once. 11 cut back. a See 5, above. b See 8, above. 12 Often, cut dead. snub, slight, spurn, shun, ignore, give the cold shoulder (to): Cornelia had the gall to cut Jason dead at his own party. 13 cut down. a fell, chop or hew down: Don't cut down that tree! b kill, cut off, murder, assassinate: He was cut down in his prime. 14 cut in. interrupt, intrude, interfere, Colloq butt in: Please don't cut in on our conversation. 15 cut off. a cleave, sever, chop or lop or hack off: Cut the branch off near the trunk. b intercept, interrupt, discontinue, end, stop, terminate, break off: There was a click and our phone conversation was cut off. c separate, sever, split, estrange: He's been cut off from the family for years. d disinherit, disown, reject: She was cut off with a shilling. 16 cut out. a delete, remove, excise, strike or cross out, edit out, omit, cut, kill, Technical dele: The publishers made me cut out parts of the book that they were advised might be libellous. b extract, excise, remove, resect: My appendix was cut out years ago. c stop, cease, desist (from), quit: Whenever it rains the engine cuts out. Cut out the clowning around. d suit, equip, fit: I don't think Cyril's cut out to be a lumberjack. e plan, prepare, ready, organize, destine: He certainly has his work cut out for him! 17 cut up. a chop (up), dice, cube, mince, cut, divide (up), carve (up): Cut the celery up very small. b misbehave: The football supporters began to cut up rough. 18 cut up rough. get angry, lose one's temper, show resentment: The driver began to cut up rough when I refused to pay. --n. 19 gash, slash, incision, nick, wound: I got a nasty cut from that razor. 20 share, portion, percentage, piece, dividend, commission: Blatchley gets a cut on every car we sell. 21 reduction, cut-back, curtailment, decrease: The government's cuts in spending affect us all. 22 deletion, excision, omission: The author refuses to approve the cuts in the script. 23 affront, insult, offence, slight, snub, dig, jibe, slap in the face, cold shoulder: The unkindest cut was the accusation of cheating. 24 engraving, plate: This cut is too badly worn for use now. 25 artwork, picture, illustration, plate, drawing, line cut, line engraving, half-tone: The book has 300 cuts and only 20 pages of text. --adj. 26 separated, detached, severed: I prefer cut flowers to a plant. 27 abridged, abbreviated, cut-down, shortened, edited, curtailed: The magazine published a cut version of the novel. 28 reduced, diminished, lowered, discounted: This shop sells everything at cut prices. 29 cut and dried. a clear-cut, settled, arranged, decided, predetermined, prearranged: Unfortunately, the solution to this problem is not cut and dried. b stale, unoriginal, trite, hackneyed, old; dull, boring: His suggestions for improvement are always cut and dried. c manufactured, automatic, unchanging, unchanged: Mr Mackay will again present his old cut and dried plan.
cycle n. 1 round, rotation, circle, course; series, sequence, run, succession, pattern: We must learn to break the continuous cycles of war and peace. --v. 2 recur, return, rotate, recycle, circle: The water from the fountain is cycled back to the reservoir.
daft adj. 1 foolish, silly, giddy, senseless, absurd, ridiculous, stupid, nonsensical, fatuous, fatuitous, imbecile or imbecilic, idiotic, moronic, obtuse, cretinous, boneheaded, fat-headed, dim-witted, witless, asinine, attocerebral, weak-minded, simple-minded, brainless, feeble-minded, feather-brained, rattle-brained, hare-brained, slow-witted, halfwitted, fat-witted, addle-pated, addle-brained, Brit gormless; Colloq dumb, dopey or dopy, daffy; Slang cock-eyed, US cockamamie or cockamamy, running on 'Empty': He has the daft idea that he will be appointed managing director. 2 See crazy, 1, above. 3 daft about. mad about, infatuated with, besotted by or with, sweet on, Colloq nuts about, crazy about: Those two are daft about each other.
damage n. 1 harm, injury, hurt, impairment, mutilation, destruction, devastation: Fortunately, there was little damage from the storm. 2 expense, price, cost; bill, invoice, US check: At the restaurant, the damage came to 50. 3 damages. compensation, reparation, indemnity: We won the suit and were awarded damages of 10,000 for defamation of character. --v. 4 harm, hurt, injure; wound; mutilate, disfigure, mar, deface; wreck, ruin, spoil, impair: Although the car was badly damaged, the passengers escaped unharmed. Will this news damage your chances of a promotion?
dampen v. 1 damp, moisten, sprinkle, bedew: Dampen the clothes before ironing them. 2 stifle, deaden, damp, check, chill, cool, restrain, retard, lessen, diminish, reduce, suppress, abate, moderate, allay, subdue, temper, dull, discourage: His constant chattering on about himself dampened her ardour.
dangerous adj. 1 risky, perilous, hazardous, unsafe, precarious, rickety, Colloq chancy, iffy: Rock-climbing is very dangerous. 2 threatening, menacing, harmful, treacherous: He is a dangerous criminal, wanted for murder.
dapple adj. 1 spotted, dotted, mottled, speckled, flecked, dappled; brindled; pied, piebald, skewbald, paint, flea-bitten, US pinto: Take the chestnut mare - I'll ride the dapple grey. --v. 2 spot, dot, mottle, speckle, bespeckle, stipple: Dapple paint on the wall with a sponge to get a mottled effect.
dark adj. 1 unlit, unlighted, unilluminated, ill-lighted, ill-lit, sunless; black, Stygian, pitch-dark, inky, jet-black: We cowered in a recess in the dark cave. 2 dim, murky, tenebrous, shady, shadowy: I could scarcely see ahead of me in the dark forest. 3 gloomy, dismal, dreary, dull, drab, subfuscous, subfusc, bleak, cheerless, mournful, dour, pessimistic, sombre, doleful, joyless, grim, sad, melancholy, sorrowful: Why do you always look at the dark side of things? 4 evil, wicked, vile, base, foul, iniquitous, nefarious, black-hearted, villainous, sinister, satanic, devilish, hellish: Nostradamus predicted that dark forces would overrun the world. 5 murky, overcast, cloudy, threatening, black, dusky, louring or lowering; foggy, misty; US glowering: Another dark day on the moor and I thought I'd go mad. 6 mysterious, deep, profound, incomprehensible, enigmatic, puzzling, impenetrable, unfathomable, abstruse, recondite, arcane, obscure: She took her dark secret to the grave. 7 hidden, concealed, secret, occult, mystic(al), cryptic: The true reason for his leaving was always kept dark in the family. 8 brunette; black, swarthy, brown; (sun)tanned, Old-fashioned swart: One is fair with dark hair, the other has dark skin. 9 ignorant, unenlightened, benighted: Our culture passed through a dark phase before the Renaissance. --n. 10 night, night-time, nightfall: We waited till dark to make good our escape. 11 darkness, blackness, gloom, gloominess, murk, murkiness: At fifty, isn't he a bit old to be afraid of the dark? 12 obscurity, ignorance: She was always kept in the dark about his true identity.
data n. facts, information, statistics, figures, details, matter, observations, material(s); text; evidence: We shall process the data on the computer and print out the results.
dawdle v. linger, loiter, straggle, delay, procrastinate, dally, lounge, laze, idle, lag, lie about, waste time, Colloq dilly-dally, shilly-shally: We have to catch the next train, so stop dawdling.
daylight n. 1 sunlight, sun, sunshine, light: Coming from the cave, we were blinded by the daylight. 2 open, broad daylight, light of day, full view, full knowledge, clarity: We must bring his treachery out into the daylight.
dead adj. 1 deceased, defunct, extinct, gone, departed, late, lifeless, no more, Colloq done for, Slang Brit gone for a burton: Both his parents are dead, and his only brother lives in Australia. Lycidas is dead, dead ere his prime. 2 insensate, insensible, numb, paralysed, benumbed, unfeeling: After the accident, my left thumb was completely dead. 3 insensible, unconscious, out, dead to the world, deathlike, deathly: At the news of her son, she fell in a dead faint. 4 insensitive, unemotional, unfeeling, emotionless, apathetic, lukewarm, cool, cold, frigid, unresponsive, unsympathetic, indifferent, unconcerned, uninterested; numb, wooden, callous, hardened, impervious, inured, inert: He has always been dead to others' problems. 5 out, smothered, extinguished: The fire is dead. 6 inanimate, lifeless, inert, inorganic: Dead stones speak volumes to the geologist. 7 extinct, obsolete, perished, past, outmoded, disused, expired, pass: Latin is a dead language. 8 barren, unfruitful, infertile, unproductive: That area off the coast is dead as far as fishing goes. 9 tired (out), exhausted, worn out, fatigued, tired out, spent, collapsing, in a state of collapse, Slang bushed, beat, Brit knackered, US and Canadian pooped: We were completely dead after the hike into town. 10 dull, lustreless, flat, neutral, vapid, empty, bland, colourless, grey, beige, dun: The walls of the prison were painted a dead white. 11 stagnant, motionless, still, standing, static, inert, unmoving, inactive, quiet, calm: There were small pools of dead water covered with a green slime. Without a breath of air stirring, the boat was dead in the water. 12 boring, dull, tedious, tiresome, monotonous, prosaic, uninteresting, run-of-the-mill, ordinary, commonplace, dry, insipid, bland, flat, two-dimensional, lifeless, stiff, rigid, stony: The play was bad, the performance dead. 13 dull, muffled, deadened, anechoic, unresounding, non-resonant: One room in the laboratory was built to be dead to all sound. 14 complete, entire, total, absolute, downright, thorough, through and through, utter, all-out, out-and-out, unqualified, unrelieved, unbroken, categorical, outright: My investment in the anti-gravity pill has so far been a dead loss. 15 profound, deep: I fell into a dead sleep. 16 sudden, abrupt, complete, full: The train came to a dead stop. 17 certain, sure, unerring, exact, precise, accurate, crack: According to the records, Calamity Jane was a dead shot. --adv. 18 completely, entirely, absolutely, totally, utterly, categorically, thoroughly, unconditionally, unqualifiedly: You are dead right about Pontefract. 19 completely, entirely, absolutely, totally; abruptly, suddenly: He stopped dead in his tracks and stared at me. 20 directly, exactly, precisely: An enormous maelstrom lay dead ahead of the fragile craft. --n. 21 depth(s), extreme, midst, middle: She used to visit his room in the dead of night.
deaf adj. 1 hard of hearing, stone-deaf: Sean is slightly deaf in his left ear. 2 unhearing, unheedful, heedless, insensible, insensitive, impervious, indifferent, oblivious, unresponsive, unmoved, unconcerned, unyielding: The judge was deaf to all appeals for clemency.
dear adj. 1 beloved, loved, adored, darling, precious, cherished, prized, valued, treasured, favoured, favourite, pet, esteemed, admired, venerated, honoured: He was my nearest and dearest friend. 2 expensive, costly, high-priced, highly priced, Colloq pricey: Tomatoes are much too dear at this time of the year. --n. 3 darling, sweetheart, beloved, love, true-love, sweet, honey, precious, pet, favourite, treasure, precious, Colloq sweetie, sweetie-pie, Slang baby: My dear, I hope we'll be together always. --adv. 4 dearly; at great cost or expense, at a high or excessive price: That little error will cost you dear, my friend.
deathless adj. eternal, everlasting, immortal, undying, imperishable, permanent, unending, timeless, never-ending: In his opinion, his novel was another example of his deathless prose.
debonair adj. 1 suave, soign(e), elegant, urbane, refined, dapper, genteel, well-bred, courteous, civil, mannerly, gracious, polite, affable, obliging, pleasant, Colloq smooth: Despite his vicious temper, he was most debonair in company. 2 carefree, insouciant, gay, nonchalant, light-hearted, dashing, charming, cheerful, buoyant, jaunty, sprightly: Being handsome and debonair, he was much sought after by hostesses.
decay v. 1 a decline, wane, ebb, dwindle, diminish, decrease: The magnetic field rapidly decays when the power is removed. b decline, waste away, atrophy, weaken, wither, degenerate, deteriorate, disintegrate; crumble: Her great beauty decayed quickly. 2 rot, decompose, moulder, putrefy, spoil; turn, go bad, go off: The flesh has decayed and only a skeleton remains. --n. 3 decline, weakening, failing, fading, deterioration, decadence, degeneration, wasting, atrophy, dilapidation, disintegration, collapse; downfall: The buildings were in an advanced state of decay. 4 rot, rotting, decomposition, mould, putrefaction, mortification: The decay has weakened the timbers supporting the bridge.
decent adj. 1 becoming, suitable, appropriate, proper, seemly, fitting: Despite the life she led, the woman should have a decent burial. 2 seemly, decorous, tasteful, dignified, mannerly, nice, clean, respectable, polite, modest, presentable, acceptable: Hereafter, you will use only decent language when speaking to me! 3 adequate, acceptable, passable, fair, competent, mediocre, middling, fair to middling, moderate, respectable, not bad, ordinary, so so, not outstanding, unimpressive, average, neither here nor there, all right, reasonable, tolerable, satisfactory, good enough, Colloq OK or okay: Sales in the first quarter were decent but hardly outstanding. 4 courteous, proper, right, fair, honest, honourable, friendly, considerate, gracious, nice, thoughtful, obliging, kind, generous, accommodating: You can count on David to do the decent thing. 5 chaste, pure, virtuous, modest, well-bred, decorous, well brought up, nice, respectable: Caroline is a decent girl, but no great brain or beauty.
decided adj. 1 definite, pronounced, marked, unmistakable, unambiguous, unequivocal, certain, sure, absolute, obvious, clear, evident, unquestionable, unquestioned, indisputable, undisputed, undeniable, irrefutable, incontestable, unqualified, unconditional, incontrovertible, solid: The party was a decided success. 2 fixed, firm, resolute, determined, adamant, stony, unhesitating, decisive, definite, unfaltering, assertive, asseverative, unswerving, unwavering: They are decided in their approval of her plan.
declare v. 1 assert, say, offer, submit, affirm, state, aver, asseverate, avow, avouch, profess, protest, swear, claim, proclaim; confirm, certify, ratify: I solemnly declare that the testimony I am to give is true, so help me God. 2 announce, make known, pronounce, decree, rule, proclaim, herald, promulgate, publish, broadcast, trumpet (forth): Robert has declared his intention to make Marianne his wife.
decoration n. 1 garnish, trim, trimming, adornment, embellishment, ornament, ornamentation, garnishment: There's a bit too much decoration on the cake. 2 medal, laurel, award, badge, colours, order, ribbon, star, garter: Captain Harder won many decorations in the war.
decrease v. 1 diminish, reduce, decline, lessen, lower, abate, fall off, shrink, shrivel (up), contract, dwindle, ebb, subside, wane, taper off, de-escalate, slacken, let up, ease (off or up), curtail, cut (down or back), Colloq run out of steam, US run out of gas: Demand for tickets to rock concerts has decreased over the years. The number of applicants for work is decreasing. --n. 2 diminution, reduction, decline, lessening, lowering, abatement, falling off, shrinking, shrivelling, contraction, decrement, dwindling, ebb, subsidence, tapering off, wane, de-escalation, slackening, easing (off or up), curtailment, cut, cut-back: There has been no noticeable decrease in the price of houses in the south-east. Have you noticed the decrease in arrests for dangerous driving?
dedicate v. 1 devote, consecrate, give (up or over), yield, offer, surrender, commit, pledge, assign: She dedicated her life to helping the poor. 2 consecrate, bless, sanctify, hallow: There stands the temple dedicated to Apollo. 3 inscribe; address, assign: This book has been dedicated to you.
deduction n. 1 subtraction, diminution, decrease, reduction, withdrawal, removal, abstraction: After deductions for expenses, you'll be left with nothing. 2 conclusion, inference, finding, reasoning, result: After considering the evidence, my deduction is that the butler didn't do it.
deeply adv. 1 deep, (far) downwards or inwards, way down, deep down: The glacier was deeply fissured. She swam to the surface and inhaled deeply. 2 profoundly, intensely, strongly, powerfully, very much, acutely, keenly, gravely, greatly, to a great extent, extremely, thoroughly, completely, entirely, seriously, severely, irrevocably, unreservedly; passionately, heavily, emotionally: She is deeply involved with a man from Kent. They were deeply committed to the labour movement.
defecate v. void (excrement), move the bowels, excrete, eliminate, evacuate (the bowels), have a (bowel) movement or bm, open the bowels, relieve oneself, Babytalk do number two , Euphemistic go to the men's or ladies' (room), go to the toilet or bathroom or lavatory, excuse (oneself), wash (one's) hands, go to the bathroom, go to the powder-room; Mincing go to the little boys' or girls' room; Colloq Brit spend a penny, Colloq Brit go to the loo, pass a motion, Taboo slang (take a) crap or shit: The first symptoms of bowel disease are problems when defecating.
defence n. 1 shelter, protection, cover, guard, safeguard, shield: There is no defence against certain illnesses. 2 fortification, armour, barricade, screen, bulwark, rampart: Shore defences were set up, including barbed wire entanglements and concrete pillboxes. 3 excuse, apology, reason, apologia, explanation; justification, vindication, argument, plea, advocacy, support: His defence for decreasing welfare payments was inadequate. She spoke in defence of nationalizing industry.
defer v. Often, defer to. give in (to), give ground or way (to), yield (to), submit (to), bow (to), capitulate (to), cede (to), accede (to), acquiesce (to); comply (with), agree (to): I'll defer to your decision in the matter.
deficit n. loss, deficiency, shortfall, shortage, default: At the end of the year there was a considerable deficit.
definition n. 1 delineation, delimitation, demarcation, outlining; acutance, resolution, distinctness, clarity, sharpness, focus, precision: The definition at the edge of the photograph is fuzzy. 2 description, explanation, explication, clarification, statement (of meaning), sense, meaning: How many definitions are there for the word 'good'?
defraud v. cheat, swindle, trick, beguile, cozen, dupe, delude, fool, bilk, fleece, victimize, take in, deceive, humbug, hoodwink, flimflam, Colloq do, diddle, con, slip one over on, put (something) over on, pull a fast one on, fast-talk, rope in,, US take; Slang take for a ride, gyp, rob, rip off, rook; Dialect flam: Shareholders are defrauded by insider trading schemes.
degenerate adj. 1 debased, degraded, corrupt, corrupted, vitiated, decadent, depraved, reprobate, dissolute, ignoble, base, low, inferior, vile: He was a degenerate descendant of a once noble lineage. Ben sank into the depths of a degenerate existence after Penelope left him. --v. 2 decline, deteriorate, decay, sink, worsen; backslide, regress, retrogress, weaken, go to the dogs, go to rack and ruin, Colloq go to pot: He felt that art had degenerated since the days of Rembrandt. --n. 3 reprobate, debauchee, wastrel, profligate, rake, rakehell, rou; pervert, deviate: The detective said that only a degenerate could have committed such a crime. degradation n. 1 degeneracy, degeneration, deterioration, corruptness, corruption, vitiation, baseness, depravity, turpitude: History records the moral degradation of a whole society. 2 disrepute, discredit, shame, humiliation, ignominy, dishonour, disgrace, abasement, debasement: He had to face the degradation of an accusation of child molestation.
deign v. condescend, stoop, vouchsafe, concede; yield, agree: Lord Worthington deigned to say good morning to us.
delectation n. delight, enjoyment, amusement, entertainment, diversion, pleasure, satisfaction: For your delectation, Le Moulin Rouge presents La Goulue!
deliberately adv. intentionally, on purpose, purposely, wilfully or US willfully, consciously, wittingly, calculatedly, calculatingly, knowingly, pointedly, resolutely, of one's (own) free will, on one's own, with one's eyes (wide) open: She did that deliberately, not by accident.
delight v. 1 please, gratify, satisfy, gladden, cheer, tickle, amuse, entertain, divert, excite, thrill, captivate, entrance, fascinate: We were delighted to hear the Mighty Allen Art Players once again. 2 delight in. enjoy, appreciate, like, relish (in), savour, revel in, glory in; love, adore; Colloq get a kick from or out of; Slang get off on: She delights in any kind of jazz. --n. 3 pleasure, gratification, joy, satisfaction, enjoyment, delectation; bliss, ecstasy, rapture: She takes great delight in playing practical jokes on her guests. In his dreams he visited the garden of earthly delights.
delirious adj. 1 wild, hysterical, distracted, incoherent, rambling, irrational, raving, ranting, frenzied, frantic, disturbed, demented, deranged, unhinged, mad, insane, crazy, lunatic: He is still delirious and doesn't know what he's saying. 2 wild, excited, crazed, thrilled, ecstatic: She was delirious with joy that Ken was coming home.
demand v. 1 require, order, bid, call (for); insist, command: I demand that you retract that remark! She demanded to know where he was going. 2 claim, ask (for), require, insist on; exact: They had paid for tickets and demanded entrance. 3 require, call for, need, want, necessitate, cry out for: This superb dish demands an excellent claret. 4 ask (for), inquire or enquire, request; requisition: We demanded help from the police. --n. 5 request, bid, behest, requisition, order, insistence; outcry: Our demand for service went unheeded. 6 want, need, requirement, desire; market (demand), marketability; consumer or customer acceptance: The demand for our products is low at the moment. 7 in demand. wanted, needed, requested, coveted, popular, sought after, desired, desirable, Brit in request, US on request: Bright graduates are always in demand. 8 on demand. on call, on request, on presentation, when requested or required; at once, immediately, without delay: These notes are payable on demand.
demon n. 1 devil, evil spirit, fiend, cacodemon or cacodaemon; monster, ghoul, ogre, harpy, vampire: Medieval demons are generally depicted as having horns, hoofs, and tails. 2 fanatic, fiend, enthusiast, addict, Colloq freak: He's a real speed demon when he gets onto the motorway.
demonstrative adj. 1 open, unrestrained, unconstrained, unreserved, expansive, effusive, emotional, warm, tender, affectionate, loving: Pat is quite demonstrative, often causing me to blush. 2 illustrative, indicative, representative, probative, evidential; provable, evident: Her point was proved by several demonstrative arguments. The hostility of these few is demonstrative of what to expect of the entire group.
denomination n. 1 sect, persuasion, school, church, order: He is a member of the Mormon denomination. 2 sort, kind, type, nature, variety, unit, size, value; grade, class, genus, species, order, classification: The kidnappers demanded the ransom money in used notes of small denomination. 3 designation, appellation, name, identification, style, title, tag, term; designating, naming, identifying, styling, classifying, titling, entitling, tagging, terming, denominating: The denomination of people by race, creed, colour, or sex is discriminatory.
deny v. 1 contradict, gainsay, refute, controvert, disaffirm, disclaim, confute, negate, dispute: She denies ever having met the defendant. 2 reject, refuse, withhold, forbid, turn down, decline, disallow; recall, revoke, recant: He asserts that his right to counsel was denied. 3 disavow, repudiate, renounce, disown, forswear, disclaim: The witch-doctor demanded sacrifices, saying that the angry gods would not be denied.
deplorable adj. 1 lamentable, regrettable, sad, woeful, grievous, wretched, miserable, unfortunate, awful, distressing, disturbing, troubling, upsetting, grave, serious, oppressive, difficult, desperate, hopeless, tragic, disastrous: Orphaned at six, he had a deplorable childhood. 2 shameful, disgraceful, scandalous, disreputable, awful, bad, appalling, dreadful, abominable, execrable, terrible, reprehensible: What did you think of Annie's deplorable behaviour at last week's dance? That's a deplorable painting.
depress v. 1 deject, dispirit, oppress, sadden, grieve, cast down, dishearten, discourage, dampen, cast a gloom or pall over, burden, weigh down: He's very depressed right now because he failed to get a promotion. 2 weaken, dull, debilitate, enervate, sap; depreciate, cheapen, devalue, devaluate; diminish, lower, bring down, reduce: The news about a new oil field depressed the market today. 3 press (down), push (down) (on), lower: If the pressure gets too high, just depress this lever.
depth n. 1 deepness, extent, measure, profundity, profoundness: The depth of the cavern was at least three miles. 2 profundity, profoundness, abstruseness, obscurity, reconditeness, complexity, intricacy: There is great depth of meaning in many proverbs. 3 profundity, wisdom, sagacity, sageness, understanding, perception, astuteness, perspicacity, perspicaciousness, insight, intuition, acumen, penetration: One would scarcely characterize Mickey Mouse as possessed of great depth. 4 intensity, profundity, strength; vividness, brilliance, brilliancy, brightness, richness: It is hard for me to express the depth of my feeling for you. The depth of colour is much better in this picture. 5 depths. deep(s), abyss, abysm, chasm, bowels of the earth, (bottomless) pit, nethermost reaches or regions, nadir: As we descended into the depths the temperature increased. She is in the depths of despair and needs your moral support. 6 in depth. thoroughly, comprehensively, in detail, profoundly, deeply, extensively, intensively, concentratedly, probingly: The specialists have looked into the problem in depth and have no answer yet.
deride v. mock, ridicule, scoff (at), jeer (at), laugh (at), make fun or sport (of), tease, taunt, twit, poke fun (at), make a laughing-stock (of), sneer (at), scorn, flout, disdain, pooh-pooh, belittle, diminish, disparage, laugh off, Brit rally, Colloq knock, Brit take the mickey or micky out of: His classmates had always derided his attempts at getting anywhere with the girls.
derivative adj. 1 derived, borrowed, procured, obtained, acquired; unoriginal, second-hand, copied, imitative, plagiarized, plagiaristic: He created nothing of his own - all his compositions were highly derivative. --n. 2 derivation, offshoot, development, spin-off, by-product: French, Italian, and other Romance languages are derivatives from Latin.
descendant n. offspring, progeny, issue, heir, posterity, family; child, son, daughter, grandchild, scion; offshoot: They claim to be descendants of Tsar Nicholas.
desert n. 1 waste, wilderness, wasteland, dust bowl: The nearest oasis was fifty miles away across the desert. --adj. 2 barren, desolate, uninhabited, unpeopled, lonely, deserted; arid, bare, vacant, empty, wild, uncultivated: I was marooned on a desert island. --v. 3 forsake, leave, abandon; jilt, throw over; maroon, strand, leave to twist (slowly) in the wind; Colloq run or walk out on, leave flat or in the lurch, leave high and dry: His courage deserted him when he saw the child's eyes. He has deserted his wife for some floozie. 4 abscond, quit, run away (from), defect, abandon; Military slang go over the hill: He deserted and will be court-martialled.
deserve v. merit, earn, be entitled to, be worthy of, rate, warrant, justify: You ought to be nicer to him - he really doesn't deserve such unkind treatment.
designate v. 1 indicate, specify, pinpoint, particularize, delineate, point out, identify, state, set forth, write or put down, name: You should designate your heirs in your will. 2 appoint, nominate, name, identify, denominate, select, pick, choose, elect, assign, appropriate, delegate, depute: She has not yet designated her successor. 3 mean, stand for, symbolize, denote, represent: The Greek letter pi designates the ratio of the circumference of a circle to its diameter. 4 call, name, style, term, label, christen, dub, nickname, entitle: Elvis was publicly designated 'The King of Rock 'n' Roll'.
desire v. 1 crave, want, fancy, covet, wish for, hope for, long or yearn for, pine or sigh for, hanker after, have an eye or taste for, hunger or thirst for or after, die for, have one's heart set on, give one's eye-teeth for, Colloq have a yen for, Slang US have the hots for: I desire nothing but your happiness. He desired her more than anything else in the world. 2 ask for, request, order, demand, solicit, importune, summon, require: Do you desire anything further, sir? --n. 3 longing, craving, yearning, hankering, hunger, thirst, appetite; passion, lust, libido, lustfulness, concupiscence, lecherousness, lechery, lasciviousness, salaciousness, prurience, Slang hot pants, US the hots; Colloq yen: He felt desire rising in him like a fever. 4 wish, request, urge, requirement, order, requisition, demand, desideratum; appeal, entreaty, petition: He fulfils her every desire.
despair n. 1 hopelessness, desperation, discouragement, disheartenment, despondency, dejection, depression, gloom, gloominess, misery, melancholy, wretchedness, distress, miserableness, anguish; resignation: The despair of the prisoners was evident in their ravaged faces. --v. 2 give up or lose hope; surrender, quit: We despaired of ever seeing our children again.
despise v. disdain, scorn, look down on or upon, be contemptuous of, sneer at, spurn, contemn; hate, loathe, detest, abhor: She despised her servants and treated them badly. He despised anyone who had not been to university.
despotic adj. dictatorial, tyrannical, oppressive, authoritarian, imperious, domineering, totalitarian, absolute, autocratic, arbitrary: The country was under the despotic rule of a callous tyrant.
destine v. 1 fate, predetermine, predestine, ordain, foreordain, preordain; doom: His only ambition was to be a successful farmer, but the gods destined him for greater things. 2 design, intend, mean, devote, assign, appoint, designate, purpose, mark, earmark, set aside: He beheld the chariot destined to carry him heavenwards.
destroy v. 1 demolish, tear or pull down, raze, wipe out, ravage, wreck, smash, ruin, break up or down, annihilate, crush, eradicate, extirpate, exterminate, devastate, commit mayhem, lay waste, vandalize, Slang US trash: The invading hordes destroyed everything, leaving desolation in their wake. The storm destroyed fifty houses. 2 ruin, do away with, end, make an end of, bring to an end, bring or put an end to, terminate, finish, kill: Realizing what he had done, he destroyed himself. The trial destroyed his career. 3 counteract, neutralize, nullify, annul, cancel (out), reverse; stop, interfere with: Caught embezzling, Martin destroyed everything he had worked for. Sunspot activity destroyed radio transmission this week. 4 disprove, refute, confute, deny, contradict, negate, overturn, overthrow, ruin, spoil, undermine, weaken, enfeeble, devitalize, exhaust, disable, cripple: By pointing out just one flaw, she destroyed his entire argument.
detach v. separate, uncouple, part, disjoin, disengage, disunite, disconnect, disentangle, free, unfasten, undo, cut off, remove: She carefully detached the printer lead from the back of the computer.
detailed adj. 1 itemized, exhaustive, comprehensive, thorough, full, complete, inclusive, particularized, precise, exact, minute, blow-by-blow, circumstantial: He kept a detailed report of everything that happened on D-Day. 2 intricate, complex, complicated, elaborate, ornate: Note the detailed scrollwork on this screen.
deter v. dissuade, discourage, inhibit, intimidate, daunt, frighten off or from or away, scare off or from; prevent, stop, obstruct, check, hinder, impede: I was deterred from entering by three large dogs. Regular spraying of plants helps to deter aphid infestation.
determine v. 1 settle, decide, clinch, arbitrate, judge, adjudge, conclude, terminate, end: The ambiguity must be determined one way or the other. 2 ascertain, find out, discover, conclude, infer, draw, learn, detect; verify: From the evidence, they determined the identity of the intruder. 3 decide, choose, select, resolve, make up one's mind, settle on or upon, fix on or upon: You alone can determine which candidate you want to vote for. 4 affect, influence, act on, shape, condition, govern, regulate, dictate: There were many factors determining my choice.
detour n. 1 diversion, deviation, circuitous route or way, roundabout way, bypass: The detour took us five miles out of our way. --v. 2 deviate, turn (away) from, divert, bypass: I detoured from the main road and took a short cut.
devastate v. 1 lay waste, ravage, destroy, waste, sack, raze, ruin, desolate, spoil, wreck, demolish, level, flatten, gut, obliterate: The island was completely devastated by the tidal wave that followed the typhoon. 2 disconcert, confound, discomfit, take aback, nonplus, shatter, overwhelm, abash, shock; humiliate, mortify, embarrass, chagrin, Colloq floor, US discombobulate: She was devastated by the news of Bertie's expulsion from college.
deviant adj. 1 deviating, divergent, different, abnormal, strange, uncommon, unusual, odd, peculiar, curious, aberrant, eccentric, idiosyncratic, deviate, queer, quirky, weird, bizarre, offbeat, singular, Slang kinky, freaky, Chiefly Brit bent: They have been observing his deviant behaviour for some time. 2 See homosexual, 2, below. --n. 3 See homosexual, 1, below.
devilish adj. diabolic(al), satanic, Mephistophelian, fiendish, demonic, cacodemonic, demoniac(al), infernal, hellish, villainous, sinister, wicked, evil, iniquitous, sinful, flagitious, heinous, malign, malevolent, malignant, cruel, maleficent; impish, mischievous, prankish, naughty, crazy, madcap: He has come up with a devilish plan for stealing the secret formula.
devote v. 1 apply, appropriate, assign, allot, commit, allocate, set aside or apart, put away or aside, dedicate, consecrate: Each of the chapels was devoted to a separate sect. 2 apply, pledge, dedicate, commit, give up: She has devoted her life to helping others.
devout adj. 1 devoted, pious, religious, reverent, worshipful, faithful, dedicated, staunch, churchgoing; holy, godly, saintly, pure: When I last saw him, he had become a devout Christian. 2 devotional, reverential, religious, solemn: Through devout prayer one might see the kingdom of heaven. 3 earnest, sincere, genuine, hearty, heartfelt, devoted, ardent, zealous: You have my devout best wishes for your happiness.
diagnose v. identify, name, determine, recognize, distinguish, pinpoint, interpret; analyse: The doctor diagnosed the symptoms as those of rheumatoid arthritis.
dicey n. risky, tricky, dangerous, difficult, ticklish, unpredictable, uncertain, unsure, doubtful, Colloq iffy, chancy or chancey, hairy: Asking for another pay rise could be pretty dicey, Daniel.
dictator n. autocrat, absolute ruler or monarch, despot, overlord, oppressor, tsar or czar, tyrant, Fuehrer or Fhrer: Among monarchs, Henry VIII certainly could have been characterized as a dictator.
die v. 1 lose one's life, lay down one's life, perish, expire, decease, suffer death, Euphemistic depart, give up the ghost, be no more, (go to) meet one's Maker, breathe one's last, go to the happy hunting-grounds, go to one's reward, go to one's final or last resting-place, go west, pay the debt of nature, pay one's debt to nature, pass through the pearly gates, pass away or on, join the majority, go the way of all flesh; Slang pop off, bite the dust, kick the bucket, croak, Brit snuff it, go for a burton, pop one's clogs, US turn up one's toes, cash in one's chips or checks: He died of tuberculosis, a rare affliction these days. 2 Often, die down or out or away. dwindle, lessen, diminish, decrease, ebb, decline, wane, subside, wither (away), wilt, melt (away), dissolve, peter out, fail, weaken, deteriorate, disintegrate, degenerate, fade (away), droop, moulder, sink, vanish, disappear: We lost the race because the breeze died down. After the third try, her enthusiasm died. The sound of the flute died away among its echoes. 3 expire, end, stop, cease: Your secret will die with me. 4 Usually, die off or out. become extinct, perish: By about 200 million years ago, all the dinosaurs had died out. 5 long, pine, yearn, crave, hanker, want, desire, hunger, ache: He said he was dying to meet a real movie star.
different adj. 1 unlike, unalike, dissimilar, conflicting; contrary, discrete, contrastive, contrasting, disparate, divergent, diverse, distinct, opposite, separate, distinguishable; another or other: We both enjoy boating but in different ways. When modelling, she assumes a different pose every few seconds. 2 unique, unusual, peculiar, odd, singular, particular, distinctive, personal, extraordinary, special, remarkable, bizarre, rare, weird, strange, unconventional, original, out of the ordinary; new, novel, exceptional, unheard-of: And now, for something completely different, we present a juggling trick cyclist. 3 assorted, manifold, multifarious, numerous, abundant, sundry, various, varied, divers, many, several: Different kinds of breakfast cereal are now available.
diffuse adj. 1 spread (out or about or around), scattered, dispersed, widespread; sparse, meagre, thin (on the ground): A few diffuse clouds could be seen on the horizon. 2 wordy, verbose, prolix, long-winded, loquacious, discursive, digressive, rambling, circumlocutory, meandering, roundabout, circuitous, periphrastic, ambagious, diffusive, pleonastic: The style of the book is very diffuse, being extravagantly uneconomic of expression. --v. 3 spread, circulate, distribute, dispense, disperse; dispel, scatter, broadcast, sow, disseminate; dissipate: The colour rapidly diffused, turning the liquid crimson. She has successfully diffused her ideas of female equality throughout the community.
dignify v. distinguish, ennoble, elevate, raise, exalt, glorify, upraise, lift, uplift, enhance, improve, better, upgrade: The critic wrote that he wouldn't deign to dignify the book by calling it a novel.
dilapidated adj. ruined, broken-down, in ruins, gone to rack and ruin, wrecked, destroyed, falling apart, decrepit, derelict, battered, tumbledown, run-down, ramshackle, crumbling, decayed, decaying, rickety, shaky, shabby, Brit raddled: We shall have to fix up that dilapidated barn if we expect to use it.
dilute v. water (down), thin (down or out), cut, weaken, doctor, adulterate; mitigate, lessen, diminish, decrease: For the table, wine was often diluted with water. He dilutes his argument by citing irrelevancies.
din n. 1 noise, clamour, uproar, shouting, screaming, yelling, babel, clangour, clatter, commotion, racket, row, hullabaloo, hubbub, hurly-burly, rumpus, hollering, blare, blaring, bray, braying, bellow, bellowing, roar, blast, roaring, pandemonium, tumult: We couldn't hear the speech above the din of the crowd. --v. 2 instil, drum, hammer: The names and dates of the British monarchs were dinned into me in childhood.
diplomacy n. 1 tact, tactfulness, adroitness, discretion: She was able to get rid of that rude boor with her customary diplomacy. 2 statecraft, statesmanship, negotiation; intrigue, Machiavellianism, machination, manoeuvring or maneuvering: Cardinal Richelieu is considered the founder of modern diplomacy.
directly adv. 1 straight, in a beeline, unswervingly, undeviatingly, as the crow flies: This road should take me directly to the beach. 2 immediately, at once, straight away, right away, quickly, promptly, without delay, speedily, instantly, Colloq US and Canadian momentarily: She called and I went directly. 3 soon, later (on), anon, presently, in a (little) while, shortly: The doctor will be here directly. 4 exactly, precisely, just; completely, entirely: My garage is directly opposite. The cricket pitch is directly at the centre of the park. --conj. 5 as soon as, when: The police arrested him directly he entered the building.
disability n. 1 handicap, impairment, defect, infirmity, disablement: James is unable to play tennis owing to his disability. 2 inability, incapacity, unfitness, impotence, powerlessness, helplessness: The teacher helped her to overcome her disability.
disagreeable adj. 1 unpleasant, unpleasing, offensive, distasteful, repugnant, obnoxious, repellent, repulsive, objectionable, revolting, odious: He found the heat and humidity in the tropics most disagreeable. 2 offensive, noxious, unsavoury, unpalatable, nauseating, nauseous, nasty, sickening, disgusting, revolting, repellent, abominable, objectionable: A disagreeable odour arose from the beggar on the doorstep. 3 bad-tempered, ill-tempered, disobliging, uncooperative, unfriendly, uncivil, abrupt, blunt, curt, brusque, short, uncourtly, impolite, bad-mannered, ill-mannered, discourteous, rude, ill-tempered, bad-tempered, testy, grouchy, splenetic, cross, ill-humoured, peevish, morose, sulky, sullen: Brian became quite disagreeable, and I did not see him again.
disappointed adj. 1 frustrated, unsatisfied, dissatisfied, disillusioned, disenchanted, discouraged, downhearted, disheartened, downcast, saddened, unhappy, dejected, discontented, let down: There will be a lot of disappointed children at Christmas this year. 2 foiled, thwarted, balked, defeated, undone, failed, let down: Though she campaigned energetically, Theodora was among the disappointed candidates.
disapprove v. condemn, criticize, censure, object to, decry, denounce, put or run down, deplore, deprecate, belittle, look down on, frown on or upon, Colloq knock, look down one's nose at, tut-tut: I don't care if you disapprove of my marrying Eustace. The monopolies commission has disapproved the merger.
disband v. disperse, disorganize, scatter, break up, dissolve, demobilize, deactivate, retire: After the war, the special spy force was disbanded.
disciple n. 1 apprentice, pupil, student, proselyte, learner, scholar: Pietro Zampollini was a disciple of the great artist Ravelli. 2 follower, adherent, devotee, admirer, votary; partisan, fan, aficionado: She is a disciple of Louis Armstrong's.
discomfit v. 1 embarrass, abash, disconcert, disturb, confuse, make uneasy or uncomfortable, discompose, fluster, ruffle, confound, perturb, upset, worry, unsettle, unnerve, Colloq rattle, US faze, discombobulate: Being short, she was discomfited by references to her height. 2 frustrate, foil, thwart, baffle, check, defeat, trump, outdo, outwit, overcome: Discomfited by her violent reaction, her attacker fled.
disconnect v. separate, disjoin, disunite, uncouple, detach, unhook, undo, disengage, unhitch; cut or break off; cut or pull apart, part, divide, sever: They disconnected the engine after pushing the carriages onto a siding. Disconnect the power before changing the light-bulb.
discontinue v. cease, break off, give up, stop, terminate, put an end to, quit, leave off, drop; interrupt, suspend: Please discontinue newspaper delivery until further notice.
discourage v. 1 dispirit, dishearten, daunt, unman, dismay, cow, intimidate, awe, overawe, unnerve: We were discouraged by the arrival of more enemy troops. 2 deter, put off, dissuade, advise or hint against, talk out of, divert from; oppose, disapprove (of), Colloq throw cold water on: They discouraged me from applying again. 3 prevent, inhibit, hinder, stop, slow, suppress, obviate: This paint is supposed to discourage corrosion.
discredit v. 1 detract, disparage, defame, dishonour, disgrace, degrade, bring into disfavour or disrepute, deprecate, demean, lower, devalue, depreciate, devaluate, belittle, diminish, reduce; slur, slander, vilify, calumniate, sully, smear, blacken, taint, tarnish, besmirch, smirch, stigmatize, asperse, malign, libel: Both of them were thoroughly discredited by the scandal. 2 disbelieve, deny, dispute, doubt, question, raise doubts about, distrust, mistrust, give no credit or credence to: As he's a known liar, you can discredit whatever he tells you. 3 disprove, reject, refute, invalidate; mock, ridicule: The phlogiston theory is generally discredited by most modern chemists. --n. 4 dishonour, degradation, disfavour, disrepute, ill repute, disgrace, ignominy, infamy, odium, stigma, shame, smear, slur, scandal, obloquy, opprobrium, humiliation: Her performance has brought discredit to all female saxophonists. 5 damage, harm, reflection, slur, aspersion, slander, defamation, blot, brand, tarnish, blemish, taint: The discredit to her reputation is irreparable. 6 doubt, scepticism, dubiousness, doubtfulness, qualm, scruple, question, incredulity, suspicion, distrust, mistrust: The new evidence throws discredit on the validity of the previous testimony.
discretion n. 1 tact, diplomacy, prudence, care, discernment, sound judgement, circumspection, sagacity, common sense, good sense, wisdom, discrimination: You can rely on my discretion not to reveal the club's secrets. 2 choice, option, judgement, preference, pleasure, disposition, volition; wish, will, liking, inclination: Buyers may subscribe to insurance cover at their own discretion.
discursive adj. wandering, meandering, digressing, digressive, rambling, circuitous, roundabout, diffuse, long-winded, verbose, wordy, prolix, windy: Frobisher was again boring everyone with his discursive description of life in an igloo.
disease n. 1 sickness, affliction, ailment, malady, illness, infection, complaint, disorder, condition, infirmity, disability, Archaic murrain, Colloq bug: The colonel contracted the disease while in Malaysia. 2 blight, cancer, virus, plague; contagion: Panic spread through the Exchange like an infectious disease.
disenchanted adj. disillusioned, disabused, undeceived, disappointed; blas, indifferent, jaundiced, sour(ed), cynical: I'm afraid she's now thoroughly disenchanted with her job.
disgrace n. 1 ignominy, shame, humiliation, embarrassment, degradation, debasement, dishonour, discredit, disfavour, disrepute, vitiation, infamy; disesteem, contempt, odium, obloquy, opprobrium: His conduct has brought disgrace on his family. 2 blemish, harm, aspersion, blot, scandal, slur, stigma, vilification, smirch, smear, stain, taint, black mark: The way she has been treated by the company is a disgrace. --v. 3 shame, humiliate, embarrass, mortify: He has been disgraced by his son's cowardice. 4 degrade, debase, dishonour, discredit, disfavour, vitiate, defame, disparage, scandalize, slur, stain, taint, stigmatize, sully, besmirch, smirch, tarnish, smear, asperse, vilify, blacken, drag through the mud, reflect (adversely) on: Once again his actions have disgraced the family name.
disgust v. 1 sicken, offend, nauseate, repel, revolt, put off, outrage, appal, Slang gross out: His patronizing attitude disgusts those who work for him. --n. 2 revulsion, nausea, sickness, repugnance, fulsomeness, outrage, distaste, aversion: One look at the food filled me with disgust. 3 loathing, contempt, hatred, abhorrence, odium, animus, animosity, enmity, antagonism, antipathy, dislike: Some feel disgust at the thought of eating insects.
dishonour v. 1 insult, abuse, affront, outrage, slight, offend, injure: His slaughter of the prisoners has dishonoured our flag. 2 disgrace, degrade, shame, debase, humiliate, mortify, abase, vitiate, humble: We were all dishonoured by our colleague's defection. 3 defile, violate, ravish, rape, seduce, deflower, debauch: The general learned that his wife had been dishonoured by one of his adjutants. --n. 4 disesteem, disrespect, irreverence, slight, indignity, ignominy, disgrace, shame, disrepute, discredit, insult, offence, affront, loss of face, depreciation, belittlement, disparagement, detraction, derogation, obloquy: You cannot retreat without dishonour. 5 aspersion, defamation, libel, slander, blot, slur, smear, smirch, black mark, blemish, denigration: His actions have brought us dishonour.
disinfect v. clean, cleanse, purify, purge, sanitize, fumigate, decontaminate, sterilize: The bedding will have to be disinfected before it can be used.
disinterested n. unbiased, impartial, unprejudiced, altruistic, objective, fair, neutral, open-minded, equitable, just, dispassionate, detached, even-handed, impersonal, uninvolved: The judge is supposed to be a disinterested party.
dismal adj. depressing, gloomy, cheerless, melancholy, sombre, dreary, sad, bleak, funereal, lugubrious, forlorn, morose, solemn, dark, grim, wretched, woebegone, woeful, black, blue, joyless, doleful, dolorous, unhappy, miserable, lowering; pessimistic: She was alone, alone on the dismal moor. The prospects for the company looked very dismal.
disobedient adj. 1 insubordinate, unruly, naughty, mischievous, bad, ill-behaved, badly behaved, obstreperous, unmanageable, refractory, fractious, ungovernable, uncomplying, unsubmissive, wayward, non-compliant, incompliant, intractable, defiant; delinquent, derelict, disregardful, remiss, undutiful: Disobedient children will be kept in after school. 2 contrary, perverse, wilful, headstrong, stubborn, recalcitrant, obdurate, obstinate, contumacious, wayward, cross-grained, opposed, mutinous, rebellious, revolting, anarchic, Colloq pigheaded: We cannot tolerate disobedient recruits.
disorientated n. confused, bewildered, lost, adrift, (all) at sea, mixed up, uncertain, unsure, insecure, disoriented, Colloq out of it, in a fog, Brit off (the) beam, US off the beam: I left by another door and was completely disorientated for a moment.
dispatch v. 1 send off or away or out, send on one's way: We dispatched a messenger with the parcel. 2 send, mail, post, transmit, forward, ship, express, remit, convey , Chiefly US and Canadian freight: Please dispatch this letter as quickly as possible. 3 kill, murder, slay, dispose of, put to death, execute, do away with, do in, assassinate,- liquidate, finish (off), put an end to, put away (for good), Slang polish off, bump off, eliminate, gun down, silence, get, erase, rub out, knock off, bury, US ice, hit, take for a ride, waste, zap: The gang soon dispatched all their rivals. 4 hasten, hurry, speed up, accelerate, get done, accomplish, get through, conclude, finish off, complete, execute, do: The task was dispatched in just two days. --n. 5 haste, speed, promptness, quickness, expedition, expeditiousness, celerity, alacrity, swiftness, hurry, rapidity: She concluded the interview with dispatch and sent me away. 6 communiqu, report, bulletin, story, news (item), communication, message, piece: document, instruction, missive: Here is a dispatch from our correspondent on Pitcairn Island. 7 execution, killing, murder, disposal, assassination, dispatching, slaying: The dispatch of the consul left us without a representative.
displace v. 1 move, transfer, shift, relocate, dislocate, misplace, disturb, disarrange, disorder, unsettle: The entire population of the village was displaced when the dam was built. 2 expel, unseat, eject, evict, exile, banish, depose, remove, oust, dismiss, discharge, cashier, Colloq fire, kick or throw out, Brit sack: The voters displaced the corrupt council. 3 take the place of, supplant, replace, supersede, succeed: Watching television has displaced reading in many modern homes.
disposable adj. 1 discardable, throw-away, non-returnable, paper, plastic, biodegradable: The new product is packaged in a disposable container. 2 available, liquid, spendable, usable, expendable, obtainable: Her disposable assets include valuable government bonds.
disproportion n. inequality, unevenness, disparity, imbalance, asymmetry, irregularity, lopsidedness, dissimilarity, inconsistency, incongruity: Now that we're older, there isn't such a disproportion in our ages.
dispute v. 1 argue with or against, question, debate, challenge, impugn, gainsay, deny, oppose, fight (against), object to, take exception to, disagree with, contest, confute, quarrel with, doubt, raise doubts about, dissent (from): The council dispute his right to build a hotel on that land. 2 argue (about), debate, discuss, quarrel about, wrangle over, differ (on or about): A bill of rights has occasionally been disputed in Parliament. --n. 3 argument, debate, disagreement, difference (of opinion), controversy, polemic, conflict, quarrel, wrangle, velitation; discussion; Colloq Brit argy-bargy or argie-bargie or argle-bargle: There is a dispute about the runner's eligibility for the race. 4 conflict, disturbance, fight, altercation, row, disagreement, brawl, Donnybrook, feud, rumpus, fracas; strife, discord; tiff, velitation, US spat: Four people have been injured in the dispute.
disreputable adj. 1 low, base, abject, contemptuous, unrespectable, disrespectable, untrustworthy, discreditable, dishonourable, disgraceful, reprehensible, shameful, despicable, ignominious, bad, wicked, heinous, vicious, iniquitous, vile, opprobrious, scandalous, louche, questionable, dubious, Colloq shady: She keeps disreputable company. 2 dishevelled, unkempt, slovenly, untidy, shabby, disordered, messy, dirty, bedraggled, scruffy, seedy, threadbare, tattered, Brit down at heel, raddled, US down at the heel(s), Colloq sloppy, Slang Brit grotty: That disreputable beggar is your brother?
disrupt v. 1 disorder, upset, disorganize, disturb, unsettle, shake up, disconcert, agitate: You've disrupted my plan completely. 2 interrupt, break in or into, interfere (with): They disrupted the meeting with their loud outbursts.
disservice n. harm, damage, injury, wrong, unkindness, bad turn, disfavour, injustice: It was a disservice to tell my boss about my expense account.
dissimulate v. pretend, dissemble, feign, disguise, camouflage, cover up, conceal, deceive, misrepresent, fake, counterfeit: She's dissimulating her real attitude towards the wealthy.
dissociate v. separate, cut off, sever, disassociate, disjoin, disconnect, abstract, disengage, detach, isolate, distance, break off (from), break up (with), divorce, set apart, segregate: I have carefully dissociated myself from any political party.
distance n. 1 remoteness, space, gap, interval, mileage, footage, stretch: What is the distance from here to your house? 2 aloofness, detachment, reserve, coolness, haughtiness, hauteur, stiffness, rigidity: He maintains a distance between himself and the servants. --v. 3 separate, detach, dissociate, disassociate: She distanced herself from her students.
distinct adj. 1 clear, perceptible, plain, understandable, vivid, definite, well-defined, precise, exact, unmistakable or unmistakeable, noticeable, recognizable, obvious, patent, marked, manifest, evident, apparent, explicit, unambiguous, clear-cut, palpable, unequivocal, lucid, sharp, pellucid, limpid, transparent: There is a distinct outline of a figure on the Turin shroud. 2 separate, detached, discrete, different, dissimilar, distinguishable, distinguished; individual, sui generis, unique, special, singular; peculiar, unusual, uncommon, contrasting: The government of Puerto Rico is distinct from that of the US. He has been charged with three distinct offences.
distinguished adj. 1 celebrated, famous, illustrious, noted, renowned, notable, noteworthy, pre-eminent, eminent, prominent, honoured, respected, honourable: Churchill was one of the most distinguished men of his day. 2 dignified, noble, grand, stately, distingu, royal, regal, aristocratic: What is he doing in this distinguished gathering?
distraught adj. distracted, agitated, troubled, disturbed, upset, perturbed, wrought or worked up, excited, frantic, at (one's) wits' end, overwrought, frenetic, nervous, frenzied, feverish, wild, hysterical, delirious, irrational, crazy, mad, insane, berserk, run(ning) amok: He is distraught with grief.
district n. territory, region, section, sector, division, partition, part, precinct, locality, area, locale, department, province, community, quarter, neighbourhood, ward: We need a new hospital in our district.
disturbance n. 1 disruption, disorder, disorganization, disarrangement, disarray; upheaval, interruption, upset, intrusion, interference: She won't tolerate any disturbance to her schedule. 2 commotion, disorder, upset, outburst, tumult, turmoil, turbulence, violence, hubbub, hullabaloo, hurly-burly, uproar, brouhaha, rumpus, brawl, mle or melee, breach of the peace, Donnybrook, fray, affray, fracas, trouble, Colloq ruckus, Brit spot of bother, Slang Brit spot of bovver: There was a disturbance at the pub yesterday.
diurnal adj. daily, circadian; day-to-day, regular, everyday, quotidian; daytime: Jet lag is a disturbance of the body's diurnal rhythms. Are these animals nocturnal or diurnal?
divers adj. various, several, sundry; miscellaneous, multifarious, manifold, varied, assorted, variegated, differing, different; some, numerous, many: We have the divers statements of the witnesses.
diversity n. 1 difference, dissimilarity, dissimilitude, unlikeness, disparity, deviation, divergence, departure, distinctiveness, diverseness, variation, variety, individuality, inconsistency, contrariety, discrepancy, contrast: Flowers are impressive in their diversity. 2 variety, range, extent, heterogeneity, multiplicity, multifariousness, variegation, multiformity: Democracy encourages diversity of opinion.
divine adj. 1 godlike, godly, holy, deiform, deific, angelic, seraphic, saintly; heavenly, celestial; sacred, sanctified, hallowed, consecrated, religious, spiritual: They believe in the divine right of kings. He receives divine inspiration at divine services. 2 superhuman, supernatural, gifted, pre-eminent, superior, excellent, supreme, exalted, transcendent, extraordinary: Even the divine Homer nods. 3 great, marvellous, splendid, superlative, glorious, superb, admirable, wonderful, awesome, perfect, excellent, beautiful, Colloq super, great, terrific, smashing, fantastic, splendiferous, Colloq Brit ace, magic: They say that the new musical is simply divine. --v. 4 intuit, imagine, conjecture, guess, assume, presume, infer, suppose, hypothesize, surmise, suspect, understand, perceive, speculate, theorize, predict, foretell, have foreknowledge of; determine, discover: He had divined that she might be there. --n. 5 holy man, priest, clergyman, cleric, ecclesiastic, minister, pastor, reverend, churchman, prelate: At his club, he enjoys the company of bishops, archbishops, and other divines.
dock n. 1 wharf, pier, berth, jetty, quay: We went to the dock to see them off. --v. 2 (drop) anchor, berth, tie up, moor, land, put in: The ship docks at noon.
doddering adj. shaking, quaking, palsied, trembling, trembly, quivering, quavering, reeling, unsteady, shaky, staggering, shambling, decrepit, faltering; feeble, weak, frail, infirm; aged, old, superannuated, senile, anile: Once a vigorous sportsman, his illness has reduced him to a doddering octogenarian.
dole n. 1 portion, allotment, share, quota, lot, allowance, parcel; compensation, benefit, grant, award, donation, gift, largesse, alms, gratuity; Slang hand-out: The prisoners received a daily dole of bread. If you've lost your job, are you eligible for the dole? 2 distribution, apportionment, allocation, dispensation: The money was given to the disaster victims by dole. --v. 3 give (out), deal (out), distribute, hand out, mete out, share (out), dispense, allot, allocate, apportion, Colloq dish out: They dole out the reparations on the basis of need.
domestic adj. 1 home, private, family, familial; residential, household: Her domestic life is a shambles. This toaster is for domestic use. 2 tame, domesticated, house-trained, house-broken: Tenants are forbidden to keep domestic animals. 3 home, native, indigenous, internal, autochthonous: The domestic market accounts for most of the company's income. --n. 4 servant, (hired) help, housekeeper, major-domo, steward: Her domestics left and she now does the cleaning herself.
domination n. 1 authority, control, rule, power, command, influence, sway, supremacy, ascendancy, hegemony, the whip or upper hand, pre-eminence, mastery: The tsar's domination lasted for more than thirty years. 2 oppression, subjection, repression, suppression, subordination, enslavement, enthralment; dictatorship, despotism, tyranny: The Allies finally brought to an end the Fascist domination of Europe.
donation n. 1 gift, contribution, largesse, present, grant, award, alms, offering, bequest: Donations have exceeded our expectations. 2 giving, contribution, bestowal, allotment, provision, offer: We are seeking the donation of a piano for our theatre group.
dope n. 1 See dolt. 2 narcotic, drug, opiate, hallucinogen, psychedelic, Slang upper, downer: He was caught trying to smuggle dope past customs. 3 information, data, facts, news, details, story, scoop, Slang info, low-down, score, Brit gen, US and Canadian poop: The real dope on the minister is sensational!
dote v. Often, dote on or upon. be fond of, be infatuated with, love, idolize, hold dear, adore, make much of; coddle, pamper, spoil, indulge: I think she dotes on her husband at the expense of the children. What we need is a doting grandmother to babysit when we want to go out.
doubtful adj. 1 in doubt, dubious, questionable, open to question, problematic, debatable, disputable, uncertain, unpredictable, indeterminate, unsettled, unresolved, conjectural, indefinite, unclear, obscure, vague, anybody's guess , Colloq up in the air: The result is very doubtful. 2 sceptical, unconvinced, distrustful, mistrustful, suspicious, uncertain, unsure, hesitant, hesitating, vacillating, indecisive: I am doubtful whether an investigation will yield anything. 3 dubious, questionable, shady, louche, disreputable, controversial: Those are people of doubtful reputation.
down and out adj. 1 indigent, poverty-stricken, poor, penniless, destitute, impoverished, Colloq broke, US on the skids, on skid row, on the bum, Slang Brit skint: Those vagrants are down and out and need help, not pity. --n. 2 down-and-out. derelict, beggar, outcast, tramp, vagrant, vagabond, US bum: He took to drink and ended up a complete down-and-out.
downpour n. rainstorm, deluge, inundation, cloudburst, thunder-shower, thunderstorm, torrential rain, torrent; monsoon: We got caught in that downpour without an umbrella.
downwards adv. down, downward, below, lower: We moved downwards, towards the centre of the earth.
drain n. 1 ditch, channel, trench, culvert, conduit, pipe, gutter, outlet, watercourse, sewer, cloaca: The storm drains have overflowed. 2 depletion, reduction, sapping, sap, exhaustion, strain, drag; outgo, outflow, withdrawal, disbursement, expenditure: The cost of the new roof was a drain on our resources. 3 down the drain. wasted, gone, thrown away, lost, Slang up the spout: All that money spent on his education went down the drain. --v. 4 draw off, tap, extract, remove, take away, withdraw, pump off or out; empty, evacuate, drink up or down, quaff, swallow, finish: After washing the lettuce, drain off the water. He drained the glass in one gulp. 5 consume, use up, exhaust, sap, deplete, bleed, strain, tax, spend; weaken, debilitate, impair, cripple: The car repairs drained my bank account. After climbing to the top of the mountain, we were completely drained. 6 seep, trickle, ooze, drip, leave, go or flow from or out of, disappear (from), ebb: Let the pus drain from the boil. The blood drained from his face when he saw her.
dramatize v. exaggerate, overplay, overstate, overdo, make a production or show (out) of, Colloq lay it on (thick), pile it on, ham (something or it) up: He always dramatizes everything way out of proportion.
draught n. 1 breeze, breath (of air), (light) wind, current (of air), puff (of air or wind): You'll get a cold sitting in the draught. 2 dose, portion, measure, quantity, drink, swallow, sip, nip, tot, potation, dram, gulp, Colloq swig, tipple: The doctor recommended a draught of this tonic before meals.
drawn adj. haggard, worn out, tired, fatigued, strained, pinched, tense, exhausted: Sidonia looks a bit drawn after her ordeal. dread v. 1 fear, be afraid of, apprehend, anticipate, flinch, shrink or recoil from, cringe or quail or blench or wince at, view with horror or alarm: She dreads any kind of surgery. --n. 2 fear, fright, fearfulness, trepidation, apprehension, apprehensiveness, uneasiness, anticipation, alarm, nervousness, qualm, queasiness, misgiving, dismay, worry, anxiety, consternation, concern, distress, perturbation, disquiet, aversion, horror, terror, panic, Colloq cold feet, butterflies (in the stomach), the jitters; Slang the heebie-jeebies, the willies, the collywobbles: I regarded the history exam with dread. --adj. 3 feared, dreaded, dreadful, terrifying, terrible: Before us, breathing fire, was the dread dragon of the Druids.
dreamlike adj. unreal, fantastic, unbelievable, phantasmagoric(al), hallucinatory or hallucinative or hallucinational, surreal, delusionary or delusional, illusionary or illusional, delusive or delusory, illusory or illusive, insubstantial or unsubstantial, imaginary, chimeric(al), fanciful, fancied, visionary: His plans have a dreamlike quality about them that make them impractical.
drench v. soak, saturate, wet, flood, inundate, immerse, drown: She had no coat or umbrella and got completely drenched in the storm.
drift v. 1 coast, float, waft: A log drifted by on the tide. 2 wander, roam, meander, stray, rove, ramble, Colloq mosey: He seems just to drift through life, without a purpose. --n. 3 trend, tendency, direction, course, current, bias, inclination, flow, sweep, bent: The drift of the conversation seemed to be towards politics. 4 intention, meaning, purport, purpose, aim, object, tenor, tone, spirit, colour, essence, gist, significance, import: Offended by the drift of her remarks, I excused myself. 5 accumulation, pile, heap, mass, bank, mound, dune: After the snowstorm, a huge drift blocked the door.
drip v. 1 dribble, trickle, drop; drizzle, sprinkle: The tap began to drip and kept me awake all night. --n. 2 dribble, trickle, drop, dripping: Yes, it was the drip from the tap that kept me awake. 3 milksop, bore, wet blanket, killjoy, damper, Colloq Brit wet, weed, Colloq wimp, Slang pill, drag, US and Canadian milquetoast: Must you invite that drip George?
drop n. 1 globule, bead, drip, droplet, tear: A drop of sweat hung from his nose. 2 bit, spot, particle, taste, dram, sip, nip, pinch, dash, dab, Colloq smidgen or smidgin: Add a drop of milk before kneading the dough. 3 descent, fall: There was a sheer drop of a thousand feet from the ledge into the chasm below. 4 decline, slope, fall-off, drop-off, declivity, incline: The drop is about 15 feet in 100. --v. 5 drip, trickle, dribble: As the water drops, filling the tube, the float rises. 6 fall, descend, sink, drop away or down or off, dive, plunge, plummet, decline, collapse: The barometer dropped 10 millibars in 10 minutes. Near that rock, the road drops to the beach. At the first shot, we dropped to the ground. 7 desert, forsake, give up, abandon, leave, quit, throw over, jilt, discard, reject, repudiate, renounce, Colloq chuck, ditch, dump; relinquish, let go, discontinue, stop, cease, end: After what he said, she dropped him like a hot potato. I wish you'd drop the subject of my disability. 8 release, let go of, shed, cast off, discard, doff: Deciduous trees drop their leaves in winter. 9 omit, leave out, exclude, eliminate: To avoid confusion with his father, he dropped his middle initial. 10 dismiss, let go, fire, discharge, oust, Colloq chiefly Brit sack, give (someone) the sack: They dropped her after a week's trial. 11 decline, decrease, drop or fall off, diminish, slacken, slack or taper off, subside, lessen: Demand for swimsuits drops during the winter. 12 drop in (on). visit, call (on), pop in (on), come by, stop in: Viola dropped in for tea yesterday. 13 drop out. withdraw (from), leave; rusticate, depart, decamp, go away or off, take off, turn off: She dropped out of school. After winning the award, Crater dropped out and hasn't been seen since.
drug n. 1 medication, medicine, medicament, pharmaceutical, remedy, cure, treatment; cure-all, panacea: My doctor prescribes too many drugs. 2 opiate, narcotic, stimulant, tranquillizer, antidepressant, hallucinogen(ic), psychedelic, hypnotic, soporific, sedative, analgesic, painkiller, Slang dope, downer, upper: Can they control the traffic in drugs? --v. 3 dose, medicate, treat: I was drugged with antihistamines and unable to drive. 4 anaesthetize, dope, deaden, knock out, sedate, stupefy, numb, benumb, dull, narcotize; poison, Slang slip (someone) a Mickey (Finn): The victim had been drugged and kidnapped.
dry adj. 1 dehydrated, desiccated, arid, sear, parched, waterless, moistureless; barren, bare, fruitless: With no rain for a month, the dry earth yielded no crops. 2 dreary, boring, tedious, tiresome, wearisome, wearying, tiring, dull, uninteresting, monotonous, prosaic, commonplace, stale, uninspired; plain, unadorned, unembellished: The minister's speech was as dry as could be, a litany of dry statistics. 3 witty, droll, wry, cynical, biting, sarcastic, cutting, keen, sly, ironic: Oscar Wilde was known for his dry witticisms. --v. 4 dehydrate, desiccate, parch: As the rainfall subsided, the land dried and changed into a desert. 5 dry up or out, wither, shrivel, shrink, wilt: The plants dried because they weren't watered.
due adj. 1 payable, owed, owing, unpaid, outstanding, in arrears: The rent is due tomorrow. 2 fitting, right, rightful, correct, proper, appropriate, apropos, apposite, suitable, apt, meet; deserved, (well-)earned, merited, just, justified: Was she treated with due respect? 3 necessary, needed, adequate, sufficient, enough, satisfactory; ample, plenty of: I do not think my case was given due consideration. 4 expected, scheduled, anticipated: He was due on the two o'clock plane. --adv. 5 directly, exactly, precisely, straight: Go due east to the river, then turn north.
dull adj. 1 stupid, slow-witted, dense, stolid, bovine, cloddish, clod-like, backward, obtuse, doltish, crass, dumb, Colloq thick, dim, dim-witted, Brit dim as a Toc H lamp: He might be a dull student but he's a brilliant artist. 2 insensitive, numb, insensible, imperceptive or impercipient, unresponsive, indifferent, unfeeling, unsympathetic, callous, hardened, hard, inured, obtundent: He knew that he could expect only a dull response to his pleading. 3 lifeless, indifferent, unresponsive, sluggish, slow, listless, inactive, torpid: The market for luxury cars is a little dull now. 4 boring, tiresome, tedious, monotonous, uninspired, uninspiring, unoriginal, uninteresting, humdrum: All work and no play make Jack a dull boy. 5 dismal, dreary, depressing, sombre, grey, dark, murky, gloomy, cloudy, clouded, overcast, sunless: If the day is dull, the photographs will show it. 6 blunted, blunt; obtuse: I nicked myself with that dull razor. 7 hazy, blurry, opaque, drab: Rub the dull film off that silver goblet. 8 muffled, numbing, deadened, muted, indistinct: I've had a dull pain in my arm all day. --v. 9 allay, assuage, relieve, mitigate, lessen, reduce: Weeping dulls the inner pain. 10 dim, tarnish, obscure, bedim, blur, cloud, becloud: A mist dulled the rich colours of the glen. 11 stupefy, narcotize, numb, benumb, desensitize, deaden, blunt, obtund: His war experiences had dulled his feelings towards others.
dumbfounded adj. dumfounded, amazed, shocked, surprised, startled, astonished, astounded, bewildered, staggered, floored, nonplussed, overwhelmed, speechless, stunned, thunderstruck, dazzled, dazed, dumbstruck, taken aback, confused, confounded, bemused, perplexed, baffled, disconcerted, Colloq bowled over, flabbergasted, knocked out, thrown (off), US thrown for a loss, Brit knocked for six, knocked sideways: She is dumbfounded that he proposed marriage.
dun v. press, importune, solicit, plague, nag, pester, Slang US bug: The gas company has been dunning me to pay the bill.
duplicate adj. 1 identical; twin, matching: They sent me duplicate tickets by mistake. --n. 2 (exact or carbon) copy, photocopy, machine copy, double, clone, (perfect) match, facsimile, twin, reproduction, replica, replication, look-alike, Trade Mark Xerox (copy), Slang (dead) ringer: This painting looks like a duplicate of the one you bought. --v. 3 copy, photocopy, clone, match, replicate, imitate, reproduce, double, Trade Mark Xerox; repeat, equal: Would you please duplicate this letter for me? Can he duplicate his performance in the Commonwealth Games?
dusky adj. 1 dark, black, ebony, sable, jet-black; swarthy, swart, dark-complected, dark-complexioned: 'Dusky diamonds' is another name for coal. A dusky gentleman offered to see her home safely. 2 shadowy, shady, dim, dark, unilluminated, unlit, murky, subfusc, subfuscous, gloomy, obscure: An ominous figure was lurking in the dusky area under the stairs.
dwell v. 1 reside, abide, live, lodge, stay, remain, rest, Formal domicile: After the father's death, the mother dwelt with her daughter. 2 dwell on or upon. harp on, persist in, emphasize, stress, focus on, linger or tarry over, elaborate (on); labour: Why must you always dwell on a person's shortcomings?
dynamic adj. dynamical, vigorous, active, forceful, energetic, potent, powerful, high-powered, lively, spry, vital, electric, spirited, zealous, eager, emphatic: We are seeking a dynamic salesman for our Reading office.
eagerness n. 1 avidity, zeal, earnestness, keenness, enthusiasm, fervour, hunger, vehemence, animation, vitality, appetite, zest, relish, spirit, spiritedness, gusto, verve, dash, lan, vim, vigour, energy, Colloq get-up-and-go, zip, go: Such eagerness for learning is rare. In his eagerness to please everyone he satisfies no one. 2 desire, longing, wishing, yearning: He observed the eagerness, the open hunger, with which she now waited for Mr Browning.
earn v. 1 merit, deserve, be worthy of, be entitled to, win, warrant, rate, qualify for, have a claim or right to: Peter has earned everyone's respect. 2 make, pocket, gross, net, clear, realize, receive, get, procure, collect, reap, bring in, take home; draw, Colloq US pull down: It is still the case that most men earn more than their wives.
earthly adj. 1 terrestrial, terrene, telluric: Extraterrestrial beings might be unable to survive in our earthly atmosphere. 2 worldly, mundane, material, materialistic, physical, non-spiritual, sensual, carnal, fleshly, corporeal, base, natural: He has forsaken earthly pleasures in favour of spiritual pursuits. 3 human, temporal, secular, profane, mortal, physical, non-spiritual, material: His earthly remains were committed to the sea. 4 conceivable, imaginable, feasible, possible: What earthly reason could she have had for kissing me?
easy adj. 1 simple, effortless, plain, clear, straightforward, hands down, uncomplicated, elementary, foolproof; easy as pie, easy as can be: Feeding goldfish is an easy job that children can undertake for themselves. 2 carefree, easygoing, casual, lenient, undemanding, relaxed, quiet, serene, restful, tranquil, peaceful, untroubled, undisturbed, unoppressive, gentle, mild, calm, comfortable, cosy, unhurried, leisurely: He has a pretty easy life now that he's retired. 3 light, lenient, undemanding, mild, flexible, indulgent, tolerant: You really should be easy on him after what he's been through. 4 tractable, pliant, docile, compliant, submissive, acquiescent, amenable, accommodating, soft, suggestible, credulous, trusting, weak, easygoing: He was an easy victim for confidence tricksters. She has the reputation of being a woman of easy virtue. 5 unstrained, gentle, moderate, unhurried, leisurely, even, steady, undemanding, comfortable, unexacting: They kept up an easy pace of about five miles a hour. 6 affable, friendly, amiable, amicable, agreeable, outgoing, informal, unceremonious, down-to-earth, unreserved, relaxing, natural, relaxed, easygoing: We found them easy to be with. --adv. 7 effortlessly; calmly, unexcitedly, temperately, peacefully, tranquilly, serenely, nonchalantly, casually: Take it easy and don't get so worked up about things.
ebb v. 1 recede, flow back, subside, go out, go down; fall back or away, retreat, retrocede, retire: The tide ebbed, leaving the boat stranded. 2 decline, flag, decay, wane, diminish, decrease, drop, slacken, fade (away), drain (away), dwindle, peter out, waste (away), deteriorate: His enthusiasm for exercise is beginning to ebb. --n. 3 low tide, low water, ebb tide, low point: The rocks appear when the sea is at its ebb. 4 decline, decay, decrease, diminution, wane, drop, slackening (off), dwindling, lessening, deterioration, degeneration: She was no longer willing to contend with the ebb and flow of his temper.
eclipse v. 1 conceal, hide, blot out, obscure, block, veil, shroud, cover, darken: A black cloud eclipsed the moon. 2 overshadow, obscure, surpass, top, outshine: His career was eclipsed by his wife's brilliant successes. --n. 3 concealment, covering, hiding, blocking, blockage, occultation, obscuring, obscuration, darkening, shading, dimming: Though good may suffer an eclipse, it can never be extinguished. 4 decline, downturn, slump; recession: After the scandal, her career went into eclipse.
ecstasy n. 1 delight, joy, rapture, bliss, transport, nympholepsy or nympholepsia, happiness, gladness, elation, pleasure, enjoyment, gratification; heaven on earth: The prospect of being with her again filled me with ecstasy. 2 exaltation, frenzy, thrill, elation, paroxysm, excitement: The ecstasy of space flight is impossible to describe.
edification n. enlightenment, improvement, uplifting, enlightening, guidance, education, information, tuition, teaching, schooling, instruction: The exhibition is designed for both edification and enjoyment.
editorial n. Brit leader, leading article; op-ed article, think-piece, opinion piece, position statement; essay, article, column: Did you see the editorial about the Middle East situation in today's paper?
educational adj. 1 academic, scholastic, pedagogical, instructional: This is one of the best educational centres in the world. 2 informative, instructive, enlightening, edifying, eye-opening, revelatory, educative: A year spent abroad is always educational.
effects n.pl. belongings, (personal) property, gear, possessions, stuff, things, paraphernalia, chattels, goods, Colloq junk, crap, Brit clobber, Taboo slang US shit: His personal effects were left scattered around the house.
effervescent n. 1 bubbling, fizzy, carbonated, sparkling, fizzing, gassy; foaming, foamy, frothing, frothy, bubbly: I prefer effervescent mineral water to still. 2 bubbling, bubbly, high-spirited, vivacious, ebullient, lively, exuberant, buoyant, animated, lively, exhilarated, excited, enthusiastic, irrepressible: Jeanette's effervescent personality endeared her to everyone who met her.
effortless adj. easy (as pie or as A, B, C, or as 1, 2, 3), simple, painless, smooth, trouble-free, uncomplicated: She admired the apparently effortless grace of the dancer.
eject v. 1 force or drive out, expel, oust, remove, get rid of, evict, Colloq throw or kick or boot out: They were ejected for causing a disturbance. 2 expel, emit, throw up or out, spew (forth), discharge, spout, disgorge, vomit (up or forth), send out or forth; ooze, exude, extravasate: The volcano ejected boulders the size of houses. 3 discharge, dismiss, cashier, drum out, lay off, declare or make redundant, Colloq fire, sack, boot out, axe, give the sack or boot or axe, give (someone) his or her marching orders or US also walking papers, send packing: He was ejected for stealing paper clips.
elastic adj. 1 flexible, stretchable, stretchy, stretch, bendable, pliable, springy, plastic, extensile, extensible, expansible, expandable, contractile, resilient, bouncy, compressible: Is it elastic enough to stretch round that box? 2 adjustable, adaptable, accommodating, flexible: The schedule for our main project is elastic, so we can fit in additional tasks at very short notice.
elderly adj. 1 old, past middle age, oldish, advanced in years, of advanced age, along in years, grey, ageing, aged, venerable; hoary, ancient, senescent, decrepit, superannuated; senile, anile; Colloq over the hill, past it, long in the tooth, having one foot in the grave, old-fogyish or old-fogeyish: Today, a person isn't considered elderly till he's past 65. --n. 2 the elderly. the retired, the old, senior citizens, pensioners, OAP's, old-age pensioners, golden-agers, Colloq old-timers, (old) geezers, (old) fogies or fogeys, Brit wrinklies: The elderly constitute an increasingly large body of voters.
electric adj. charged, tense, energized, stimulating, exciting, thrilling, galvanizing, electrifying, moving, stirring: As the jury filed in, the atmosphere in the courtroom was electric.
elegant adj. 1 tasteful, exquisite, handsome, beautiful, comely, dapper, smart, well turned out; graceful, choice, superior, fine, select, refined, delicate, discerning, artistic; dignified, genteel, sophisticated, cultivated, polished, urbane, Chesterfieldian, suave, soign(e), debonair, courtly, to the manner born, well-bred, well-born, high-born: Desmond and Elizabeth are such an elegant couple! 2 artistic, stylish, modish, la mode, chic, fashionable, Colloq in, with it: The newly refurbished rooms are very elegant. 3 luxurious, sumptuous, grand, opulent, plush, Colloq posh, swank, swanky, ritzy, fancy: We stayed in a very elegant West End hotel. 4 apt, clever, ingenious, neat: What is needed is a more elegant solution to the problem.
elevated adj. 1 raised, upraised, uplifted, lifted (up): Only three hands were elevated in opposition and the motion was carried. 2 uplifted, noble, lofty, high, grand, exalted, dignified, eminent, pre-eminent, ennobled, prominent, notable, illustrious, distinguished, imposing, impressive, sublime: He has rather elevated notions of morality. 3 elated, cheerful, happy, exhilarated, animated, joyful, glad: Her elevated spirits and pleasant countenance make her a welcome guest.
eligible adj. 1 fit, worthy, qualified, proper, suitable, appropriate, fitting: Is he an eligible candidate for the post? 2 single, unmarried, unwed, available: He is one of the few eligible bachelors in the town.
eloquent adj. 1 expressive, articulate, silver-tongued, fluent, well-spoken, effective, persuasive, convincing, cogent, trenchant, incisive, graphic, vivid, striking, facile, smooth, glib, oratorical, rhetorical: He was an eloquent speaker. He rose and gave an eloquent speech. 2 suggestive, meaningful, pregnant: His eyebrow was raised in eloquent scepticism.
emaciated adj. emaciate, atrophied, shrivelled, wizened, shrunken, haggard, gaunt, drawn, pinched, bony, skeletal, cadaverous, withered, wasted, consumptive, phthisic, anorexic or anorectic, wasting (away), scrawny, skinny, thin, lean, spare, undernourished, underfed, starved, half-starved: The inmates of the camp were so emaciated they could scarcely stand.
embark v. 1 board, go aboard; entrain; emplane or enplane: We embarked and the ship sailed. 2 Often, embark on. commence, begin, enter (upon), initiate, launch, start, go into, set about, take up or on, engage in, assume, tackle: He will embark on the new enterprise next month.
embarrassment n. 1 bashfulness, awkwardness, clumsiness, discomposure, abashment, uneasiness, discomfort, self-consciousness, mortification, chagrin: My embarrassment made me blush. 2 difficulty, mess, predicament, dilemma, problem, trouble, Colloq hot water, pickle, fix, scrape, bind: Finding them together presented me with a real embarrassment. 3 excess, superfluity, superabundance, over-abundance, embarras de richesse, embarras de choix, oversupply, surplus, profusion: An embarrassment of options was open to me.
embezzle v. misappropriate, peculate, misapply, misuse, steal, make off or away with, filch, pilfer, purloin, Law defalcate; Colloq have one's hand in the till: The treasurer had embezzled half a million from the company.
emblematic adj. emblematical, symbolic(al), representative, representational: The white dove is emblematic of peace.
emerge v. 1 appear, come out, come forth, come up, rise; arise, surface, come into view or notice, come to light, be revealed, crop up, turn out, develop, become known, become apparent, transpire, happen, evolve: It emerged that she had bought a pistol that morning. 2 issue, emanate, come forth, proceed: The train emerged from the tunnel.
emigrate v. migrate, move, relocate, resettle; leave, quit, depart, forsake: Her parents emigrated from Turkey and settled in Scotland.
emotion n. feeling, passion, sentiment, sensation: They say there is a fine line between the emotions of love and hate.
emphatic adj. firm, uncompromising, determined, decided, resolute, dogged; earnest, definite, unequivocal, unambiguous, distinct, dogmatic, categorical, peremptory, explicit, incisive, insistent, affirmative, positive, sure, certain, unmistakable or unmistakeable, specific, definitive, direct; forceful, vigorous, energetic, assertive, intense; express, pronounced, strong: She was emphatic about leaving then and there.
employer n. 1 proprietor, owner, patron, manager, director, chief, head, Colloq boss, Brit gaffer, governor, Eye dialect guv'nor, guv: My employer comes in late every day. 2 company, firm, corporation, business, establishment, organization, Colloq outfit: She took her employer to court for unfair dismissal.
enable v. 1 qualify, authorize, entitle, permit, allow, sanction, approve, empower, license,commission, entrust, depute, delegate, assign, charter, franchise: An act was passed to enable them to build the railway. 2 capacitate, facilitate, expedite, help, aid, assist: The grant enabled me to continue my studies. 3 permit, allow, approve, assent to, go along with, agree to, give the go-ahead or green light, Colloq OK or okay: Her press pass enables her to get through police lines.
enchanting adj. beguiling, bewitching, entrancing, spellbinding, charming, fascinating, captivating, intriguing, enthralling, alluring, delightful, hypnotic, attractive, appealing, winsome, ravishing, seductive: Caesar found Cleopatra utterly enchanting.
enclosure n. 1 fold, pen, cote, run, sty, yard, farmyard, barnyard, courtyard, quadrangle or quad, square, compound, Brit close, US and Canadian corral: We had trouble keeping the dogs in the enclosure. 2 fence, wall, rail, railing, barrier, hedge, barricade, boundary: The buildings serve as an enclosure.
encroach v. Often, encroach on or upon. intrude, trespass, infringe, invade, make inroads: When you mention arctophily, you're encroaching on my territory.
end n. 1 extremity, extreme, extent, bound, boundary, tip, limit, terminus: That fence marks the southern end of the property. At the end of the garden was a large shed. 2 close, termination, conclusion, cessation, expiration, finish, completion, finale, ending, wind-up; denouement or dnouement: At the end of the film, the lights came on. 3 aim, purpose, intention, intent, objective, object,goal, point, reason, raison d'tre, destination, motive, motivation, aspiration: To what end does she persist so vehemently? 4 consequence, result, outcome, effect, upshot: The end of the affair was that he had to leave town. 5 destruction, death, ruin, extermination, annihilation, death, termination, conclusion: That would spell the end to all life on earth. 6 at a loose end or US and Canadian at loose ends. unsettled, unoccupied, unemployed, uncommitted, undecided, indecisive, ambivalent, vacillating, purposeless, aimless, adrift, drifting,betwixt and between, neither here nor there: My wife has gone off to visit her mother and I'm at a loose end. 7 on end. a upright, erect, standing: He can balance a ruler on end. b continuously, uninterruptedly, unceasingly, incessantly, consecutively: It rained for days on end. 8 the end. a the worst, the last straw, the final blow, Colloq the limit, too much: Brian's winning first prize is the absolute end. b the best, the greatest: That disc by The What is the living end. --v. 9 terminate, conclude, bring to an end, stop, halt, cease, wind up ordown, settle, put an end to, discontinue, break off, cut off, close, finish, culminate, end up, Brit put paid to; die (out), expire, climax, peter out, vanish: We have ended our relationship. The book ends with her returning to him. The year ends on December 31st. 10 kill, put to death, annihilate, exterminate, terminate, extinguish; destroy, ruin: He ended his life last night with a bullet. 11 surpass, outdo, outclass, outshine, outstrip, supersede: It is a disaster film to end all disaster films.
endeavour v. 1 try, attempt, strive, make an effort, do one's best, struggle, exert oneself, undertake; aim, aspire; Colloq take a stab at, have a go or crack or whack or shot at: For years he's endeavoured to see her. --n. 2 effort, pains, attempt, try, striving, struggle, venture, enterprise, Colloq stab, crack, whack, shot: Her endeavours to be published have come to naught.
endowment n. 1 grant, (financial) aid, subsidy, subvention, allowance, allotment, contribution, donation, gift, present, award; bequest, inheritance, dowry: The endowment was enough to support me for a year. 2 gift, presentation, bestowal, award, awarding, settlement: The endowment of the grant was approved by the college. 3 endowments. qualities, talents, gifts, abilities, aptitudes, capabilities, capacities, qualifications, strengths; attributes, properties, characteristics: She is a woman of considerable endowments.
enemy n. foe, antagonist, adversary, opponent, rival, competitor, contestant, contender; the opposition, the other side: His enemies were running a smear campaign against him.
enervate v. weaken, tire, strain, enfeeble, debilitate, fatigue, exhaust, drain, sap, wear out, devitalize, break, defeat: I have always found the tropics quite enervating.
engagement n. 1 appointment, meeting, date, rendezvous, arrangement, commitment: I'm sorry, I have a previous engagement. 2 betrothal: Their engagement was announced in all the papers. 3 agreement, bargain, obligation, promise, pledge, covenant, contract: The company undertook an engagement to provide the steel. 4 job, position, post, commission, booking; employment, work; Colloq spot, Slang (of a musician) gig: He has an engagement with the newspaper. 5 fight, battle, conflict, encounter, combat: The naval engagement lasted three days and nights.
engrave v. 1 cut, carve, chisel, inscribe; etch: The ring was a plain gold band, engraved with daisies. 2 impress, stamp, set, lodge, fix, embed, imprint, ingrain: The horror of that night was forever engraved in his mind.
enjoy v. 1 delight in, appreciate, like, take or derive pleasure or satisfaction in or from, relish (in), fancy, take to, Slang dig, get a kick or lift or charge out of, get high on, get off on: Bernard really enjoys Wagner. 2 benefit or profit from, take advantage of, use, utilize, make use of, use to advantage, have, possess: He cannot be charged because he enjoys diplomatic immunity. 3 enjoy oneself. have a good time, make merry, Colloq have a ball or the time of one's life: I enjoyed myself at your party.
enlightened adj. well-informed, informed, educated, aware, knowledgeable, literate, rational, reasonable, sensible, common-sense, commonsensical, broad-minded, open-minded, liberal; cultivated, civilized, sophisticated, Colloq in the know: In a democracy, the press serves an enlightened public.
enormous adj. huge, immense, gigantic, elephantine, gargantuan, mammoth, titanic, colossal, tremendous, vast, massive, stupendous, Brobdingnagian, gross, monstrous, prodigious: An enormous dragon blocked their way out of the cave.
enrage v. anger, infuriate, madden, incense, provoke, inflame, make (someone's) blood boil, Colloq get (someone's) back or Irish or hackles or dander up, make (someone) see red, wave a red flag before (someone), make (someone's) blood boil, US burn (someone) up, Slang US tick (someone) off, Taboo piss (someone) off, Brit put (someone's) monkey up, US tee (someone) off: Lord Thimble was enraged at being made to wait his turn.
ensemble n. 1 outfit, costume, clothing, clothes, attire, apparel, garb, garments, coordinates, Colloq get-up: A black hat, gloves, and shoes completed the ensemble. 2 band, combination, orchestra, group; chorus, choir; Colloq combo: A new chamber music ensemble is performing tonight at the town hall. 3 assemblage, composite, aggregate, collection, set, whole, entirety, totality; agglomeration, conglomeration: A strange ensemble of objects was on display.
entangle v. 1 tangle, ensnarl, snarl, enmesh, catch (up), entrap, snag, foul, implicate, knot (up), twist; impede; involve, embroil: The propeller became entangled in the seaweed so that the boat couldn't move. 2 confuse, mix (up), twist, snarl, ensnarl, ensnare, hamper, complicate, confound, bewilder, perplex, embarrass: He became entangled in a web of social and business liaisons.
entertain v. 1 amuse, divert; delight, please; occupy: While we waited the boy entertained us with his juggling. 2 receive, accommodate, treat, be host (to), cater (for or to); have or see people or guests or visitors or company; Colloq host: We entertain on Tuesdays only. 3 contemplate, consider, have, hold, harbour, foster, tolerate, allow, maintain, sustain, support: They felt that they could not entertain the idea of their daughter marrying the gardener's son.
enthusiasm n. 1 eagerness, keenness, earnestness, fervour, avidity, zeal, excitement, passion, ardour, interest, relish, devotion, devotedness, gusto, exuberance, zest; fanaticism, mania, rage: No one matches her enthusiasm for grand opera. 2 rage, passion, craze; hobby, interest, pastime, diversion, amusement; Colloq fad: His current enthusiasm is acid rock.
enticement n. 1 temptation, allurement, beguilement, seduction, cajolery, wheedling, blandishment, coaxing, persuasion: Do you approve of the system of enticement used to get you to buy time-share holidays? 2 lure, bait, decoy, trap, inducement, attraction, temptation, Colloq come-on, soft soap: Among the enticements offered was a free weekend in Paris.
entitle v. 1 allow, permit, qualify, make eligible, authorize, fit; enfranchise, license, empower: This document entitles her to half of the estate. 2 name, title, call, label, nickname, dub, designate, term; christen, baptize: His first novel was entitled Out of the Depths .
entrenched adj. rooted, deep-rooted, embedded, fixed, (firmly) planted, established, set, deep-seated, unshakeable, ineradicable, ingrained: We were unable to combat their entrenched opposition to the proposals.
enumerate v. 1 list, name, itemize, specify, detail, spell out, catalogue, tick off, take stock of, cite, quote, recite, recount, relate, narrate , US check off: I shall enumerate the reasons why you may not go. 2 count, calculate, compute, reckon, tally, add, number: The researcher could enumerate only seven different species.
envious adj. jealous, covetous, resentful, begrudging, green-eyed, green (with envy), desirous: He is envious of his wife because she has a better job.
envision v. envisage, visualize, imagine, conceive of, foresee, anticipate, predict, forecast, prophesy: I envision great success for you.
epicurean adj. 1 sensual, sybaritic, luxurious, voluptuous, carnal, self-indulgent, pleasure-seeking, pleasure-oriented, hedonistic, gluttonous, intemperate, overindulgent, crapulent or crapulous, swinish, porcine, piggish, immoderate, orgiastic, libidinous, wild, unrestrained, unconfined, dissolute, dissipated, Bacchanalian, Saturnalian: The king's epicurean lifestyle contrasted with that of his starving subjects. 2 Lucullan, gourmet: That was truly an epicurean repast. --n. 3 epicure: It was a meal that would have won the approval of the greatest epicureans.
episode n. 1 event, incident, occurrence, happening, experience, adventure, affair, matter: Please do not remind me of the episode with the chicken. 2 chapter, scene, instalment, part: Don't miss tonight's episode of your favourite soap opera.
equality n. 1 parity, sameness, identity, coequality, uniformity: The equality of the two bids was very suspicious. 2 similarity, likeness, resemblance, equivalence, correspondence, conformity, congruence, similitude, analogy, comparability, comparison, coincidence: The equality between their performances is surprising. 3 impartiality, fairness, justice; egalitarianism: Surely we all deserve equality of treatment under the law.
equitable adj. fair, even-handed, just, impartial, objective, unbiased, unprejudiced, square, fair-minded, open-minded, disinterested, dispassionate, neutral, tolerant, unbigoted, reasonable, judicious, ethical, principled, moral, proper, right-minded, Colloq fair and square: Suspects have the right to equitable treatment.
equivocate v. evade, mislead, hedge, deceive, quibble, dodge, weasel out (of), double-talk, fence, sidestep, skirt, avoid, tergiversate, prevaricate, Colloq waffle, beat about the bush, pussyfoot: I wish she'd confirm or deny it and stop equivocating.
erode v. wear (down or away), eat away, grind down, abrade, gnaw away (at), consume, corrode, wash away; deteriorate, destroy, deplete, reduce, diminish: Water has eroded the rock. Their continued lying has eroded my confidence in their honesty.
errand n. 1 trip, journey: She was on an errand of mercy. 2 mission, charge, assignment, commission, task, duty: Francis is out running some errands for me.
erupt v. 1 eject, discharge, expel, emit, burst forth or out, blow up, explode, spew forth or out, break out, spout, vomit (up or forth), throw up or off, spit out or up, belch (forth), gush: The volcano erupted ash and lava. 2 appear, come out, break out: A boil erupted on his chin.
essay n. 1 article, composition, paper, theme, piece; thesis, dissertation, disquisition, tract: Her essay is on the life cycle of the flea. 2 attempt, effort, try, endeavour, venture; Colloq shot, go: This is his first essay into the financial world. --v. 3 try, attempt, endeavour, strive, make an effort, undertake, venture, tackle, test, go about, Colloq take a crack or whack or stab at, Slang have a go at, give (it or something) a shot, have a go or bash (at): Let him essay to do better.
establishment n. 1 foundation, founding, formation, organization, construction, creation, origin, origination, institution, inauguration, setting up: We look forward to the establishment of a democratic government. 2 business, concern, firm, company, enterprise, institution, organization; office; shop, store, market: He works for a retail establishment. 3 the Establishment. the system, the government, the authorities, the administration, the power structure, the ruling class, the (established) order, the conservatives,the powers that be; the Church: The press must not be under the control of the Establishment.
estimate v. 1 approximate, gauge, determine, judge, guess; assess, appraise, value, evaluate, reckon, calculate, work out, Colloq guestimate or guesstimate: Experts estimated the cost of restoration at 10,000. 2 consider, think, believe, guess, conjecture, judge: I estimate our chances of success as very low. --n. 3 approximation, gauge, guess, conjecture, assessment, appraisal, evaluation, reckoning, calculation, Colloq guestimate or guesstimate: What is your estimate of the company's value? 4 estimation, belief, opinion, judgement, thinking, feeling, sentiment, sense, (point of) view, viewpoint: My estimate of his abilities is that he is not the man for the job.
eternal adj. 1 everlasting, timeless, infinite, endless, immortal, limitless: They pledged eternal love for one another. 2 unending, endless, ceaseless, unceasing, incessant, perpetual, constant, continuous, interminable, uninterrupted, non-stop, unremitting, persistent, relentless; continual, recurrent: I'm sick and tired of my neighbours' eternal arguing. 3 unchanged, unchanging, immutable, invariable, unvarying, unalterable, permanent, fixed, constant, everlasting, enduring, lasting, undiminished, unfaltering, unwavering: To the north there was only the eternal silence of the greatest desolation.
eulogize v. praise, extol, laud, applaud, compliment, sound or sing the praises of, acclaim; appreciate, honour; flatter: Kirk was eulogized for his contribution to space travel.
evade v. 1 avoid, elude, dodge, sidestep, escape (from); get away (from), get out of, duck, circumvent, shirk, Colloq chiefly US and Canadian weasel out (of): The prisoner evaded capture. Don't evade your responsibilities. 2 quibble, equivocate, tergiversate, manoeuvre, hedge, shuffle, fudge, fence, parry, Colloq waffle, Slang cop out: The witness continued to evade the barrister's questions.
evaporation n. 1 vaporization, drying (up or out), dehydration, desiccation, exsiccation, parching, searing: Clouds are formed by the evaporation of terrestrial water. 2 disappearance, dispersion, dispelling, dissipation, evanescence, dematerialization, dissolution, fading (away), melting (away): He was pleased to note the evaporation of all serious opposition.
even adj. 1 smooth, flat, plane, level, regular, uniform, flush, straight, true: Sand the edges till they are even. 2 Sometimes, even with. level or uniform (with), coextensive (with), flush (with), parallel (with or to): Make sure that the lines at the bottom of the columns are even. Is that board even with the others? 3 steady, regular, consistent, constant, uniform, unvaried, unvarying, methodical, unchanging, set, equable, stable, measured, metrical, rhythmical, orderly, ordered, monotonous, unbroken, uninterrupted: We walked along at an even pace. 4 even-tempered, calm, equable, composed, placid, serene, peaceful, cool, tranquil, unruffled, imperturbable, undisturbed, impassive, steady, temperate, equanimous, self-possessed, sober, staid, sedate, sober-sided: People of even disposition are unexcited, unexcitable, and unexciting. 5 balanced, equal, the same, identical, coequal, level, drawn, on a par, tied, neck and neck; equivalent, Colloq fifty-fifty, Brit level pegging, US even Steven: At half-time the scores were even. I have an even chance of getting the job. 6 square, quits, equal: If I pay for this round, we'll be even. 7 fair (and square), square, impartial, disinterested, neutral, just, even-handed, equitable, straightforward, on the level, honest, upright, unbiased, unprejudiced: See that you make an even distribution of the food parcels. 8 exact, precise, round, rounded off or out or up or down: The bill came to an even fifty pounds. 9 get even (with). repay, revenge oneself (on), even or settle accounts or the score (with), requite, reciprocate, retaliate, be revenged: I'll get even with her for telling my mother. Whenever he feels that he's been insulted, he wants to get even. --adv. 10 still, yet; all the (more), indeed, (more) than ever: He is even dumber than I thought. He is in debt to everyone, even his daughter. 11 Sometimes, even with or though. notwithstanding, despite, in spite of, disregarding: Even with delays, we arrived on time. 12 even so. nevertheless, nonetheless, still, yet, notwithstanding, all the same, in spite of that, despite that: He refused to attend; even so, we sent him an invitation. --v. 13 Usually, even up or out. smooth, flatten, level, equalize; align: This road will be fine when they even out the bumps. 14 even out or up. equalize, balance (out), settle; compensate: Unfortunately, our profits and our expenses evened out.
eventuality n. circumstance, contingency, event, occurrence, happening, case; likelihood, chance, possibility, probability: We must prepare for the eventuality of war.
everyday adj. 1 daily, day-to-day, quotidian, diurnal; circadian: In our family a big breakfast was an everyday occurrence. 2 commonplace, common, ordinary, customary, regular, habitual, routine, usual, run-of-the-mill, unexceptional, accustomed, conventional, familiar: She found herself unable to cope with everyday tasks that she used to take in her stride. 3 prosaic, mundane, dull, unimaginative, unexciting, mediocre, inferior: These are very everyday paintings of little value.
evict v. oust, dislodge, turn out (of house and home), expel, eject, remove, dispossess, put out, Law disseise or disseize, Colloq toss or throw or kick or boot out, Brit turf out: The landlord evicted us for non-payment of rent.
evidently adv. 1 clearly, obviously, plainly, manifestly, palpably, apparently, patently, indubitably, undoubtedly, doubtless(ly), without a doubt, indisputably, incontestably, incontrovertibly, undeniably, unquestionably, surely, certainly, to be sure: He is evidently the culprit. 2 apparently, outwardly, seemingly, it would seem, so it seems, as far as one can see or tell, to all appearances, ostensibly: Evidently, there were two people here, not just one.
evolution n. development, advance, growth, progress, progression, phylogeny, evolvement, developing, growing, evolving, formation, maturation, production: This book traces the evolution of the aeroplane. His treatise is on the evolution of insects.
exaggerate v. overstate, magnify, inflate, overdraw, embroider, embellish, elaborate, enlarge, stretch, romance, overemphasize, overstress, overplay, overdo, exalt, hyperbolize, paint, Colloq lay it on thick, play up, pile it on: She exaggerates when she claims to be the best actress in the world. He believes the health risks are exaggerated.
examination n. 1 investigation, scrutiny, study, analysis, inspection, inquiry or enquiry, probe, search, exploration, research, survey, going-over, check-up, check(out), appraisal, assessment: Examination of the finances revealed a secret Swiss bank account. 2 testing, test, quiz, exam: There will be a written examination on Friday. 3 interrogation, inquisition, inquiry or enquiry, catechism, cross-examination, Colloq third degree, grill(ing): Examination of the prisoners is left to intelligence officers.
excavate v. 1 dig (out or up), hollow or gouge (out), scoop out, burrow or cut (out): They are excavating a great hole in the centre of the site. 2 unearth, uncover, expose, clear, lay bare, dig up, disinter, bring up, exhume: A large part of Pompeii has been excavated.
exceedingly adv. very, extremely, especially, exceptionally, considerably, incomparably, immeasurably, extraordinarily, remarkably; excessively, greatly, hugely, enormously: She plays the violin exceedingly well. Even for a dog, that is an exceedingly ugly dog.
except prep. 1 Sometimes except for. excepting, save, but, excluding, exclusive of, barring, bar, with the exception of, omitting, not counting, apart from, but for, other than, saving: There was no one there except us. Except for us, no one came. --conj. 2 except that. except or but (for the fact) that, but, save that: He would have gone except that he has no car. --v. 3 exclude, omit, leave out, excuse: As usual, the wealthy were excepted from the tax increase.
excerpt n. 1 extract, selection, quotation, citation, passage, pericope: The speaker read excerpts from well-known writers. --v. 2 extract, select, quote, cite, cull (out), pick (out), take: Parts of this book were excerpted from his earlier writings.
excitable adj. volatile, jumpy, apprehensive, nervous, restive, restless, fidgety, edgy, touchy, highly-strung, high-strung, mercurial, emotional, quick-tempered, testy, hot-blooded, feverish, hysterical, US on a short string: The director becomes very excitable before each performance.
exciting adj. 1 stimulating, intoxicating, heady, thrilling, stirring, moving, inspiring, rousing, exhilarating, electrifying, galvanizing, energizing, invigorating; overwhelming, overpowering, astounding, astonishing, amazing, mind-boggling, Colloq far-out, rip-roaring, mind-blowing: Orbiting the world in the space shuttle was the most exciting experience of my life. 2 seductive, sensuous, voluptuous, ravishing, captivating, charming, tempting, enticing, alluring, provocative, titillating, Colloq sexy: Fenella is truly an exciting young woman.
exclusion n. 1 lockout, shut-out, ban, bar, prohibition, interdiction, forbiddance, denial, refusal, disallowance, proscription: He would not join a club that supported the exclusion of women members. 2 elimination, rejection, omission, repudiation, exception, preclusion: We must ensure the exclusion of unqualified candidates. 3 ejection, eviction, expulsion, ouster, removal, riddance: The exclusion of rowdies and hooligans is in the club's best interests.
execute v. 1 accomplish, do, carry out or off or through, perform, discharge, dispatch or despatch, bring about or off, implement, engineer, cause, Colloq pull off, put over, Slang US swing, cut, hack (out): She executes her duties satisfactorily. 2 complete, finish, deliver; achieve, consummate, fulfil, effect, effectuate; sign, seal, validate, countersign: He executed the portrait in an hour. The contract was executed yesterday. 3 put to death, kill, put to the sword, butcher; liquidate, assassinate, murder, remove, slay, Slang bump off, rub or wipe out, snuff (out), knock off, US waste, ice: Convicted murderers are no longer executed in this country. The mob executed the rival gangleaders.
exemplify v. 1 illustrate, typify, represent, epitomize, instance; embody, personify: This painting exemplifies Picasso's blue period. 2 demonstrate, display, show, exhibit, model, depict: Early Mediterranean civilization is exemplified at Knossos. exempt v. 1 Often, exempt from. free or liberate or release from, excuse or relieve from, spare from, let off, absolve, except, Colloq let off the hook: The doctor exempted Becker from strenuous activity. --adj. 2 exempted, free, liberated, released, excused, relieved, spared, let off, excepted, immune, Colloq off the hook: It seems that Becker is now exempt from doing any work.
exertion n. action, effort, striving, strain, work, struggle, toil, drive, push, diligence, industry, assiduity, assiduousness, sedulousness, sedulity, Colloq US stick-to-it-iveness: By considerable exertion, we finished on time. He was tired after all his exertions.
exhausted adj. 1 (dead) tired, fatigued, weary, wearied, worn out, enervated, debilitated, overtired, weak, weakened, prostrate, worn or fagged or played or burnt-out, spent, all in, out on one's feet, Colloq dog-tired, dead (on one's feet), wiped out, drained, knocked out, all in, done in, frazzled, Slang (dead) beat, Brit knackered, US and Canadian pooped: I must sleep: I'm exhausted. 2 empty, emptied, bare; depleted, consumed, done, gone, at an end, finished: Our supply of paper-clips is exhausted. 3 spent, worn out, depleted, impoverished, poor, infertile, barren: It is impossible to grow anything in this exhausted soil.
exhibit v. show, display, present, offer, expose; show off, parade, brandish, flaunt; demonstrate, reveal, betray, manifest, exemplify, evince, evidence, disclose, express: Her paintings are widely exhibited. Such behaviour exhibits poor judgement.
exist v. 1 be, continue, prevail, endure, abide; live, breathe: Some believe that the universe exists only in our imagination. 2 survive, subsist, eke out a living or an existence, stay alive, get by or along: How can the family exist only on his pension? 3 occur, happen, be found, be present, remain, persist; obtain, prevail: A two-foot gap exists between the wall and the roof. 'Status quo' refers to the circumstances that exist.
exotic adj. 1 foreign, alien, non-native, imported: She raises exotic plants. 2 strange, unfamiliar, unusual, bizarre, odd, peculiar, unique, singular, extraordinary, remarkable, out of the ordinary, different, outlandish, weird, crazy: His exotic clothes make him stand out in a crowd. 3 striptease, belly, go-go, topless, bottomless, nude: Her daughter is an exotic dancer at the new disco.
expansive adj. 1 expansible or expandable or expandible, inflatable, dilatable, extensible or extendible or extendable; extending, expanding, enlarging, spreading, opening or stretching (out): Increased temperature causes the enlargement of expansive materials. 2 effusive, open, free, easy, genial, amiable, friendly, warm, affable, sociable, outgoing, communicative, outspoken, extrovert(ed) or extravert(ed), talkative, loquacious, garrulous, frank, unreserved: William became relaxed, almost expansive over the meal. 3 broad, extensive, far-reaching, wide-ranging; comprehensive, widespread, all-embracing, (all-)inclusive: We stood on the edge of an expansive desert. The company has expansive interests in Europe. expect v. 1 anticipate, look forward or ahead to, have or keep in view, await, envisage, watch or look for, wait for, contemplate, foresee, US envision: She expects to leave. He was expecting her at noon. 2 assume, presume, suppose, imagine, believe, think,trust, surmise, conjecture; foresee, US and Canadian guess: I expect you will be hungry when you return. 3 look for, want, require, wish, need, demand, reckon on or upon, hope for, calculate or count on or upon: What did you expect me to do?
expedient adj. 1 suitable, appropriate, fitting, fit, befitting, proper, apropos, right, correct, meet, pertinent, applicable, practical, pragmatic, worthwhile, politic: To cross the river, a bridge would prove expedient. 2 advantageous, beneficial, advisable, desirable, recommended, useful, practical, utilitarian, prudent, wise, propitious, opportune, helpful, effective: Count on him to do what is expedient and ignore what is honest. --n. 3 device, resource, means, measure, contrivance, resort, recourse: Life jackets are a useful expedient if the boat sinks.
expel v. 1 eject, dislodge, throw or cast out, drive or force out, evict, put or push out, remove, run (someone) off or out, displace, dispossess, show the door, suspend, dismiss, let go, Colloq fire, Brit sack, turf out: They will expel the tenant at the earliest opportunity. 2 banish, deport, exile, expatriate, outlaw, maroon; proscribe, ban, bar, debar, dismiss, exclude, blackball, drum out, cashier, discharge, oust: The leader of the opposition was expelled from the country. The committee voted to expel Horace from the club.
expense n. 1 Often, expenses. payment, costs, outlay, outgoings, disbursement, expenditure, spending, out-of-pocket (expenses); cost, price, charge, fee, rate: Keep your expenses to a minimum. Expenses for travel and entertainment will be reimbursed by the company. 2 detriment, sacrifice, cost, loss, impairment, ruin, destruction: They continue to smoke at the expense of their health.
experiment n. 1 test, trial, investigation, inquiry or enquiry, examination, experimentation, research, proof: Experiment has shown that the ointment cures many minor skin ailments. 2 procedure, policy: Totalitarianism seems to have failed as a political experiment. --v. 3 experiment on or with. test, try, examine, investigate, research, probe: The time has come to experiment on human subjects. Artists now experiment with many media, from canvas to computers.
expiration n. expiry, finish, (coming to an) end, termination, running out, ending, conclusion, concluding, close, closing, discontinuance, discontinuation: The expiration of the option is in March.
explanatory adj. explanative, elucidative, revelatory, interpretive or interpretative, expository, descriptive; critical, exegetic(al): Please read the explanatory notes below.
exploit n. 1 achievement, deed, feat, attainment, accomplishment: The speaker regaled them with tales of his exploits as an explorer. --v. 2 use, take advantage of, manipulate, make capital out of, profit from, utilize, turn to account, manoeuvre, work: Far from being your friends, they are exploiting you for their own purposes. They need capital to exploit the country's natural resources.
explosive adj. 1 volatile, sensitive, delicate, tense, anxious, fraught, touch-and-go, touchy, inflammable, (highly) charged, unstable, uncertain, unsound, shaky, hazardous, chancy, unpredictable, precarious, dangerous, perilous, critical, nasty, ugly, Colloq dicey, iffy: The explosive situation between the strikers and management may lead to bloodshed. --n. 2 dynamite, TNT, gunpowder, gelignite, plastic, plastique: The car was blown up by a powerful charge of explosive.
express v. 1 articulate, verbalize, phrase, utter, voice, state, word, put (into words), set or put forth, put or get across, communicate, depict, portray; say, speak, tell: She expressed her thoughts on the subject very clearly. 2 show, indicate, demonstrate, manifest, exhibit, evince, evidence, reveal, expose, disclose, divulge, make known, intimate, betoken, signify, embody, depict, designate, denote, convey: His tone of voice expressed his resentment. 3 symbolize, represent, signify, stand for, denote, designate: The ratio can be expressed in the form of a fraction. 4 press or squeeze or wring or force out, expel, extract: The oil is expressed from ripe olives. --adj. 5 explicit, clear, plain, unambiguous, unmistakable, unqualified, outright, definite, out-and-out, downright, straightforward, categorical, direct, specific, well-defined, distinct, precise, accurate, exact, positive: We had an express understanding not to enter into competition with one another. 6 specific, special, particular, clear-cut; true: Our express purpose in coming was to see you. 7 quick, speedy, swift, fast, rapid, prompt, immediate; direct, non-stop: The documents must be sent by express delivery.
expulsion n. expelling, ejection, eviction, repudiation, ouster, removal, dismissal, discharge; Colloq the (old) heave-ho, Brit the boot, the sack, sacking, US the bounce: His expulsion from the pub was accompanied by cheers from the patrons.
extension n. 1 stretching, expansion, increase, enlargement, augmentation, development, amplification, broadening, widening, lengthening, spread, spreading: The extension of the plan is scheduled for next year. 2 range, extensiveness, scope, extent, magnitude, gauge, compass, sweep, reach, size, volume, dimension(s), proportions, capacity, span; breadth, width, height, length, spread, stretch: The extension of the mind seems almost limitless. 3 addendum, addition, annexe, wing, adjunct, ell, appendage; appendix, supplement: We have built an extension to the house.
exterior adj. 1 outer, outside, external, outward, superficial, surface: The exterior covering of the capsule becomes very hot on re-entry into the earth's atmosphere. 2 external, extrinsic, extraneous, foreign, alien, exotic, outside: The problem can be overcome without exterior help. --n. 3 outside, surface, covering, coating, facing, face, front, skin, shell, faade: The exterior is of pink stucco.
extinguish v. 1 put or snuff or blow out, quench; turn off or out: We are landing shortly, so please extinguish all smoking materials. Extinguish the lights before leaving. 2 kill (off), annihilate, destroy, obliterate, abolish, exterminate, eliminate, do away with, nullify, eradicate, remove, banish, wipe or blot out: The potion contained a drug that extinguished all memory of unhappiness. 3 obscure, eclipse, dim, outdo, put in the shade, overshadow, adumbrate, Colloq show up: His personality is completely extinguished by the dazzle of his wife.
extract v. 1 draw or pull (out), remove, withdraw, pluck or take out, draw forth, extricate: The dentist extracted two teeth. I extracted some important papers from your waste-paper basket. 2 draw, derive, deduce, develop, glean, extricate, distil, get, obtain: I could extract little sense from her ramblings. 3 wrench, wring, wrest, extort, draw (forth), evoke, elicit, extricate, winkle out, worm (out), prise (out), force (out): Using torture, they finally extracted a confession from him. She extracted money from her victims by threatening to tell their wives. 4 copy, quote, cite, abstract, select, choose, glean, cull: We extracted useful material from some old encyclopedias. --n. 5 concentrate, distillate, essence, distillation, quintessence, concentration, extraction, decoction: We boiled off the water and used the extract as a salve. 6 excerpt, abstract, quotation, citation, clipping, cutting, passage, selection: Extracts from other works are printed in smaller type.
extravagance n. 1 wastefulness, waste, lavishness, profligacy, prodigality, squandering, dissipation, improvidence, exorbitance, recklessness, overspending, excess: Our present debts are the result of extravagance. 2 immoderation, immoderateness, excessiveness, outrageousness, unrestraint, superfluity, superfluousness, over-sufficiency, preposterousness, unreasonableness, irrationality, absurdity; capriciousness, whim, fantasy, flightiness: His tawdry life belied the extravagance of his dreams.
extremely adv. very, exceedingly, outrageously, extraordinarily, unusually, uncommonly, exceptionally, damned, hellishly, to the nth degree, Colloq Brit bloody, US darned: The service was extremely bad. They are extremely stupid.
exuberance n. 1 cheerfulness, joy, joyfulness, ebullience, effervescence, exhilaration, buoyancy, animation, spirit, spiritedness, sprightliness, liveliness, vitality, vivacity, enthusiasm, excitement, zeal, zest, energy, vigour: It is hard to imagine the dog's exuberance when he saw his master. 2 abundance, lavishness, effusiveness, flamboyance, copiousness, superabundance, superfluity, excess, profusion, prodigality, bounteousness, bountifulness: Everything attests to the exuberance of the author's genius.
eye n. 1 eyeball, orb, Colloq optic: The eye of the eagle is nearly as large as that of an elephant. 2 vision, (eye)sight, visual acuity, perception: Her eyes are weakened by so much reading. 3 discernment, perception, taste, judgement, discrimination, percipience, perspicacity, appreciation, sensitivity; knowledge, recognition, comprehension: Shirley has a good eye for Chinese antiques. Walmsley has the eye of an artist. 4 liking, affection, fondness, partiality, appreciation; lustfulness: Old Bisley still has an eye for the girls. 5 ogle, leer, look, wink, glad eye, sidelong glance: The barmaid gave me the eye as soon as I walked in. 6 view, respect, regard, aim, intention, purpose, design, plan, idea, notion: He lent me the money with an eye to asking a favour in return. 7 attention, regard, look, scrutiny, view, examination, observation; supervision: All our comings and goings were under the watchful eye of Scotland Yard. 8 guard, lookout, watch, vigil: The class monitor is expected to keep an eye on the younger children. --v. 9 examine, scrutinize, look at, regard: My future mother-in-law eyed me up and down. 10 behold, gaze or look or peer at or upon, contemplate, study, regard, view, inspect; watch, observe: The doctor eyed the wound with concern.
fabrication n. 1 construction, assembly, assemblage, making, fashioning, production, manufacture, putting together, building, erection, formation, formulation, structuring, constructing, organization, forming, framing, architecture: The fabrication of thousands of parts took only a month. 2 invention, creation, origination, make-up, manufacture, hatching, concoction, contrivance, design: Only Vanessa could have been responsible for the fabrication of such a diabolical plot. 3 falsehood, lie, fib, prevarication, story, tale, untruth, fiction, yarn, fable; falsification, forgery, fake, sham, Colloq cock-and-bull story, Brit fairy story, fairy tale: His war record is a complete fabrication.
facility n. 1 ease, smoothness, fluency, effortlessness, readiness, easiness, skill, skilfulness, deftness, dexterity, adroitness, ability, aptitude, expertise, expertness, proficiency, mastery, masterfulness, masterliness, efficiency; quickness, alacrity, celerity, swiftness, speed: They praised her new-found facility with the Italian language. 2 Often, facilities. a plant, system, building(s), structure, complex: The company is building a new facility in France. b convenience(s), privy, equipment, lavatory, toilet, powder-room, Nautical head, Brit water-closet, WC, loo, US and Canadian rest room, men's room, ladies' room, Colloq the Gents, the Ladies('), Slang Brit bog, karzy, US and Canadian john: An American asked where he could find the facilities.
faction n. 1 group, cabal, bloc, cadre, camp, splinter group, circle, camarilla, clique, set, coterie, lobby, pressure group, junta or junto, ring, gang, Brit ginger group, Colloq crowd: There is a small faction plotting to assassinate the finance minister. 2 dissension, intrigue, strife, sedition, disharmony, discord, disagreement, quarrelling, contention, controversy, infighting, rupture, split, rift, schism, clash: Faction within the party has no regard for national interests.
factory n. works, mill, plant: She has a job at the piano factory.
fade v. 1 (grow) dim or pale, grow faint, cloud (over), dull; bleach, whiten, etiolate, wash out, blanch or blench, discolour: The scene faded in the distance. Look how the sun has faded the curtains! 2 droop, wither, decline, die out or away, perish, ebb, flag, wane, wilt, waste away, sag, diminish, dwindle, languish, deteriorate, decay, shrivel, peter out or away: As he aged, his lust for life faded.
failure n. 1 failing, default, non-performance, remissness; neglect, omission, dereliction, deficiency: His failure to do his duty resulted in a court martial. 2 breakdown, collapse, discontinuance, miscarriage, loss; decline, decay, deterioration: Power disruptions are caused by the failure of the national grid. 3 loser, non-starter, incompetent, also-ran, nonentity, Colloq flop, fizzle, damp squib, dud, lemon, washout, dead duck, US lead balloon: He was an utter failure as a violinist. 4 bankruptcy, ruin, insolvency, downfall, crash, Colloq folding: Bank failures increased owing to bad loans and other poor investments.
fair n. fte, festival, kermis or kirmess, exhibition, exposition, show; market, bazaar, mart, US exhibit: Ashby will judge the sheep at the annual fair.
faithful adj. 1 true, loyal, devoted, steadfast, dedicated, attached, unswerving, firm, staunch, unwavering, constant: He has always remained faithful to his wife. 2 close, exact, accurate, true, correct, precise, perfect, valid; literal: Jowett's is a faithful translation from the Greek. 3 conscientious, dutiful, scrupulous, careful, meticulous, thorough, punctilious, finicky or finical, detailed, fastidious, rigorous, rigid, severe, particular: He received a gold watch for fifty years of faithful attendance to his duties. 4 reliable, dependable, trusted, trustworthy, trusty, honest, true, truthful, righteous, right, moral, virtuous, upright, veracious: He has remained my faithful friend for many years.
fallacy n. misconception, miscalculation, misjudgement, mistake, error, non sequitur, solecism, delusion; paralogism; sophism: It is a fallacy to think that you could ever learn to play the violin as well as Susannah.
falsity n. untruthfulness, mendacity, mendaciousness, fraudulence, deceptiveness, deceit, deceitfulness, dishonesty, spuriousness, speciousness, casuistry, hypocrisy, insincerity, falseness: The prosecution was unable to prove the falsity of her statement.
familiarize v. Usually, familiarize with. accustom (to), make familiar or acquaint (with), initiate (in), inform (about or on), enlighten (about or as to), teach (about), educate or instruct or tutor (in): I am trying to familiarize myself with the music of John Cage.
famous adj. renowned, celebrated, popular, famed, well-known, noted, eminent, pre-eminent, conspicuous, prominent, illustrious, notable, acclaimed, venerable, legendary, distinguished, praiseworthy, honoured, lionized: A famous architect has been invited to address the convention.
fanatical adj. fanatic, extreme, distracted, maniacal, mad, rabid, zealous, frenzied, feverish, burning, frantic, frenetic, obsessive, fervent, compulsive, monomaniacal, fervid, perfervid, passionate, enthusiastic, agog, immoderate, excessive: The entire family are fanatical in their fundamentalism.
fancy adj. 1 ornate, decorative, decorated, ornamental, ornamented, elaborate, embellished, embroidered, fanciful, extravagant, rococo, baroque, gingerbread, Byzantine, complicated, intricate, complex: The modern trend has been away from fancy architecture. 2 illusory, capricious, fanciful, extravagant, fantastic, far-fetched, delusive, whimsical, visionary, unrealistic, grandiose: He has some fancy ideas about building an undersea city. 3 de luxe, luxury, luxurious, choice, select, prime, special, elegant, superior, quality, high-class; posh: They stock only fancy fruits and vegetables. She has a fancy suite at the Cardigan Hotel. 4 high, exorbitant, inflated, outrageous: One has to pay very fancy prices for haute couture. --n. 5 imagination, creation, conception, inventiveness, creativeness, creativity: These chimeras are entirely a product of his fancy. 6 imagination, fantasy, hallucination, delusion, illusion, unreality, make-believe, dream, day-dream, pipedream, mirage, phantasm, phantom, figment (of the imagination), impression: Our plans for the future must be based on fact, not fancy. 7 liking, inclination, fondness, taste, penchant, attraction, preference, partiality, predilection, yearning, craving, hankering, wish, desire, longing: Miss Crow's fancy for younger men often causes her some embarrassment. 8 idea, whim, caprice, whimsy, urge, impulse, notion, vagary, quirk, crotchet, peculiarity: His fancy today is that he invented electricity. --v. 9 imagine, conceive, picture, visualize, envisage, think or make up, conjure up, US envision, Colloq dream up: He fancies himself on a big yacht in the Mediterranean. 10 think, imagine, understand, believe, suspect, guess, conjecture, presume, surmise, assume, take it, suppose, infer, reckon: From his costume I fancy he must be Superman. Fancy Kim winning the Nobel prize! 11 like, be attracted to, take (a liking) to, desire, want, crave, long or pine for, have a yen or craving for, have an eye for, wish for, hunger for, favour, prefer, lust after: Terry has always fancied tall women. I wouldn't fancy being 40 feet up a swaying ladder like that.
fantasy n. 1 imagination, fancy, creativity, inventiveness, creativity, originality: We encourage the children to give free rein to their fantasy. 2 vision, hallucination, illusion, mirage, delusion, chimera, dream, day-dream, (flight of) fancy, pipedream: Her fantasy is to become prime minister. 3 make-believe, invention, cabrication, fiction, masquerade, fable, concoction, pretence: His story about being an orphan is pure fantasy.
fare n. 1 passenger, traveller: The taxi-driver deposited his fare at the hotel. 2 charge, price, cost: What is the fare from Oxford to London? 3 food, diet, victuals, meals, viands, eatables, provisions: Prison fare consisted of bread and water. --v. 4 do, make one's way, manage, get on or along, make out, survive: The children didn't fare very well on their own.
farmer n. husbandman, agriculturist, agronomist, yeoman, Brit smallholder, US dialect granger: The farmers here were hard hit by the drought.
fascination n. enchantment, sorcery, magic, attractiveness, attraction, draw, pull, (animal) magnetism, charm, allure, captivation, influence, witchcraft, entrancement: Blondes always held a strange fascination for him.
fast v. 1 abstain, go hungry, deny oneself, diet, starve (oneself): Do you fast during Lent? --n. 2 abstention, abstinence, fasting, self-denial, diet; hunger strike: She went on a two-week fast.
fat adj. 1 obese, stout, overweight, heavy, plump, rotund, corpulent, portly, well-fed, chubby, podgy or chiefly US pudgy, roly-poly, tubby, bulky, fleshy, paunchy, pot-bellied, overfed, flabby, elephantine, Colloq broad in the beam, beamy, beefy, Slang US five-by-five: A fat man squeezed in beside me. 2 oily, oleaginous, unctuous, greasy, fatty, pinguid, sebaceous, adipose: His complexion is bad because he eats too much fat food. 3 rich, wealthy, prosperous, affluent, well-to-do, well off, Colloq well-heeled, loaded: They grew fat on their profits from the black market. 4 profitable, lucrative, fruitful, remunerative, Slang cushy: He has a fat job as a purchasing agent for the government. --n. 5 obesity, corpulence, stoutness, overweight, heaviness, plumpness, rotundity, portliness, chubbiness, podginess or chiefly US pudginess, tubbiness, fleshiness, paunchiness, flabbiness: He leans a little towards fat because of lack of exercise. 6 riches, wealth, prosperity, fertility, yield, abundance, plenty, plenteousness: He's living off the fat of the land.
fated adj. 1 destined, predestined, predetermined, decreed, doomed, fateful, ordained, foreordained, preordained, decided: The fated day of my trial arrived. 2 sure, certain, doomed, damned, cursed: Was I fated to spend the rest of my life in this fetid dungeon? 3 fatal, fateful, unavoidable, inescapable, inevitable, ineluctable: Their fated punishment was to bail out the sea using sieves.
fatherly adj. paternal, kindly, kind, warm, friendly, affectionate, protective, amiable, benevolent, well-meaning, benign, caring, sympathetic, indulgent, understanding; parental: My nephew used to come to me for fatherly advice.
fatness n. obesity, stoutness, corpulence, embonpoint, portliness, plumpness, chubbiness, rotundity, podginess or chiefly US pudginess: His fatness is owing to a glandular condition, not overeating.
faulty adj. defective, unsound, imperfect, flawed, impaired, out of order, malfunctioning, broken, bad; damaged; Slang on the blink, Chiefly US on the fritz: The carburettor is faulty.
favoured adj. 1 preferred, chosen, choice, selected, popular, favourite, pet: The favoured explanation is that he is the boss's son. 2 advantaged, privileged, blessed, prosperous, wealthy, rich, affluent, well off: She is one of the favoured few who can afford to travel.
fearful adj. 1 afraid, scared, frightened, terrified, alarmed, panic-stricken, terror-stricken: Of all disasters, I am most fearful of fire. 2 hesitant, timid, timorous, shy, diffident, unwilling, intimidated, jumpy, nervous, edgy, panicky, anxious, apprehensive, cowardly, pusillanimous, Colloq yellow, jittery: Why is she so fearful of meeting her prospective in-laws? 3 awful, dire, dreadful, frightful, frightening, terrifying, terrible, appalling, ghastly, atrocious, horrible, horrifying, horrendous, horrific, hideous, gruesome, grisly, grim, baleful, monstrous, unspeakable, loathsome, heinous, repugnant, repulsive, revolting, disgusting, nauseating, nauseous: The fearful monster blocked our only way out.
feasibility n. practicability, workability, applicability, viability, practicality: The feasibility of the scheme has yet to be assessed.
feature n. 1 characteristic, attribute, trait, mark, hallmark, earmark, property, character, quality, aspect, facet, peculiarity, quirk, idiosyncrasy: What are the identifying features of traditional Chinese architecture? 2 (main) attraction, draw, special attraction, high point or spot, best or memorable part; main film; US and Canadian drawing card; column, piece, article, item: The feature of the show was the appearance of Gracie Fields. He writes the gardening feature for a Sunday newspaper. 3 features. face, visage, physiognomy, countenance, looks, Slang mug, kisser, chips and plaice: Her features twisted into a frown. --v. 4 present, promote, publicize, advertise, highlight, spotlight, put into the limelight, star, stress, emphasize, call attention to, play up, puff up, Colloq headline, hype: He was featured in many films. 5 be, act, perform, take or have a role or part, participate, be involved or drawn in: Novels feature prominently in our publishing programme.
feeble-minded adj. stupid, dull(-witted), witless, moronic, idiotic, imbecilic, simple, slow (on the uptake), slow-witted, weak-minded, dim-witted, addle-pated, halfwitted, deficient, subnormal, mentally defective, retarded, attocerebral, Brit ESN (='educationally subnormal'), Colloq dumb, thick, soft in the head, boneheaded, empty-headed, vacant, Brit gormless, US exceptional: Why do you spend so much time with that feeble-minded twit?
feeling n. 1 (sense of) touch, sensitivity, sense, perception, sensation, sensibility: I had no feeling in my left side. 2 intuition, idea, notion, inkling, suspicion, belief, hunch, theory, sense; premonition, hint, presentiment, sense of foreboding, sensation, impression, opinion, view; instinct, consciousness, awareness: I have a feeling you're fooling. Do you ever have the feeling of being watched? 3 regard, sympathy, empathy, identification, compassion, tenderness, appreciation, concern, understanding, sensitivity, sensibility: He has a genuine feeling for animals. 4 ardour, warmth, passion, fervency, fervour, ardency, intensity, heat, sentiment, emotion, vehemence: She said she loved me with so much feeling that I thought she meant it. 5 feelings. emotions, sensitivity, sympathies, sensibilities, susceptibilities: She hurt my feelings. 6 feel, mood, atmosphere, climate, sense, air, ambience or ambiance: There is a feeling of impending doom about this place. --adj. 7 sentient, sensitive, tender, tender-hearted, compassionate, sympathetic: Their behaviour did the soldiers honour as feeling men.
fellowship n. 1 companionship, camaraderie, comradeship, amity, brotherhood, fraternization, togetherness, association, friendship, amity, companionability, sociability, intimacy: I have always enjoyed the fellowship of my university colleagues. 2 society, club, association, alliance, guild, league, union, sisterhood, sorority, brotherhood, fraternity, congregation, circle, community, order, organization, consortium, partnership; lodge, clan, company, coterie, set, clique, coalition, bloc, cartel, trust: They belong to the worldwide fellowship of artists. 3 friendliness, clubbiness, sociability, intimacy, amicability, affability, kindliness, cordiality, familiarity, affinity, belonging, congeniality, warmth, hospitality: Being a club member gives him a feeling of fellowship.
fend v. 1 fend for oneself. get or scrape along (on one's own), make out, get by, make do, shift for oneself, take care of or provide for or support oneself: Mother didn't believe I could fend for myself. 2 fend off. discourage, parry, keep or hold at bay, resist, repel, stave or ward or fight off, deflect, turn aside, avert, divert: We fended off our attackers for three days.
fertilize v. 1 impregnate, inseminate, pollinate, fecundate, fructify: The flower should be fertilized by pollen from a different stock. 2 manure, mulch, feed, nourish, enrich, dress, compost: The earth can be fertilized at any time.
festival n. 1 holiday, holy day, fte, feast, commemoration, anniversary: He wanted to be with his family for the Christmas festival. 2 celebration, fte, festivities, carnival, entertainment, red-letter day, gala day, anniversary, birthday: The town organizes a festival every autumn.
fte n. 1 festival, entertainment, reception, levee, gala, rejoicing, celebration, party, festivities, get-together, social, amusement, revel, fair, ball, frolic, spree, jamboree, carnival, event, occasion, Colloq blow-out, shindig, bash, do, bust, Slang US and Canadian wingding, blast: You are invited to our annual fte on New Year's Eve. --v. 2 entertain, feast, roll or bring out the red carpet for, wine and dine, celebrate, honour, lionize, fuss over, kill the fatted calf for: Fiona's book was a great success and she was fted all over Europe.
few adj. 1 hardly or scarcely any, not many, insufficient; infrequent, occasional: Few people came to my party. He is a man of few words. --n. 2 handful, some, scattering: I invited a lot of people, but only a few came. --pron. 3 (only) one or two, not many: Many apply but few are chosen.
fibre n. 1 filament, thread, strand, fibril, tendril: This fabric is woven from cotton fibre. 2 texture, structure, material, fabric: The fibre of this rock is granular. 3 essence, character, nature, mould, composition, constitution, substance, quality, stripe, cast, make-up: Love for him is wrapped up in the very fibre of her being.
fiddle v. 1 Often, fiddle with. meddle (with), tamper (with), interfere (with), alter, falsify, fix; cheat, swindle, flimflam; Colloq finagle, Brit cook: The treasurer had been fiddling the accounts for years. 2 Often, fiddle with or about or around. toy or trifle or fidget (with), twiddle or play or tinker (with), fool or fuss (with), Colloq mess or muck (about or around) (with), frivol (away), monkey (around) (with): He sat there nervously fiddling with his ear. Stop fiddling about and get on with your work. --n. 3 Brit swindle, fraud, racket, thimblerig, US shell-game, Slang skin game, funny business, monkey business: The tax inspector caught him in some fiddle with his business expenses. 4 violin, viola, viol, cello, violoncello, kit: He played fiddle for the tsar.
fiend n. 1 See devil. 2 addict, maniac, fanatic; fan, aficionado, enthusiast, devotee, hound, follower, Colloq buff, nut, Slang freak: He's a Welsh rarebit fiend.
fiery adj. 1 burning, flaming, blazing, hot, red-hot, white-hot, overheated; afire, on fire, in flames, ablaze: Fiery lava burst from the volcano. 2 glowing, red, incandescent, brilliant, luminous, glaring, gleaming, radiant; aglow, afire: We watched the fiery sunset fade into azure hues. 3 ardent, eager, spirited, passionate, excited, excitable, peppery, irascible, touchy, irritable, edgy, hotheaded, fierce: I had best not be late as my boss has a fiery temper.
file n. 1 document, documentation, dossier, case, data, folder, portfolio, information: Interpol has files on Cowdery's activities going back ten years. 2 line, queue, column, row, rank: The file of armoured vehicles stretched for miles. --v. 3 classify, organize, systematize, categorize, alphabetize, chronologize, order, arrange, pigeon-hole, interfile, put or place in order, register, record, enter: Must all this correspondence be filed today? 4 submit, send in, complete, fill in or US and Canadian also fill out, enter: I have already filed my application for a transfer. 5 walk, march, troop, parade: Please file into the classroom and take your seats.
filmy adj. 1 gauzy, gossamer(-like), sheer, delicate, diaphanous, transparent, translucent, flimsy, light, cobwebby, insubstantial, see-through, peekaboo: Phoebe looked very seductive in her filmy negligee. 2 murky, blurry, cloudy, hazy, misty, bleary, blurred, dim, clouded, beclouded, milky, pearly, opalescent: We inched down the cliff in the filmy light of the moon.
final adj. 1 ending, concluding, terminating, finishing, closing, last, terminal, ultimate, end: The final sentence needs rewriting. 2 conclusive, decisive, unalterable, irreversible, irrevocable, incontrovertible, irrefutable, indisputable, unchangeable, immutable, definitive; settled, fixed, absolute, certain, sure: Those are my final words on the subject. We made a final series of measurements.
finance n. 1 resource(s), banking, accounting, economics, money (management), business, commerce, (financial) affairs, investment: Bendick is the officer in charge of finance for the company. 2 finances. capital, money, cash, funds, resources, assets, holdings, wealth, wherewithal: Have you the finances needed to buy the house? --v. 3 fund, subvene, invest in, back, capitalize, underwrite, subsidize, pay for, Colloq US bankroll: The new enterprise is being financed entirely by small investors.
finding n. 1 discovery, find: The findings from Pompeii are in the Museum of Portici. 2 judgement, decree, verdict, decision, determination, pronouncement, declaration, conclusion: The findings of the Law Lords are final.
finesse n. 1 artfulness, subtlety, cunning, craftiness, cleverness, strategy, shrewdness, skill, style, dash, lan, panache, knack, skilfulness, talent, adroitness, expertness, expertise, adeptness, proficiency, ability, facility: I admire the finesse with which she persuaded him to give the painting to the museum. 2 trick, artifice, stratagem, wile, ruse, scheme, machination, intrigue, device, expedient, manoeuvre, deception, deceit: He used every finesse in the book to get her to work for him. 3 tact, diplomacy, discretion, grace, taste, delicacy, polish, refinement, elegance: With infinite finesse, Lord Lacey suggested that the duchess might like to stay the night. --v. 4 manoeuvre, manipulate, bluff, trick, delude, deceive, fool, outwit, hoodwink, Colloq finagle, Slang con: She was finessed into making him heir to her fortune.
finite adj. limited, bounded, bound, restricted, delimited, numerable, countable: It has been shown that there are a finite number of grains of sand in the universe.
firmly adv. 1 solidly, strongly, securely, tightly, rigidly, fast, immovably: The column is set firmly into the concrete. 2 resolutely, steadfastly, determinedly, staunchly, unwaveringly, decisively, unhesitatingly, constantly: Jacquelyn firmly supports John in anything he says.
fishy adj. 1 piscine, fishlike, piscatory, piscatorial: On the fishmonger's slab lay an array of fishy offerings, only a few of which I could recognize. 2 dubious, doubtful, questionable, unlikely, far-fetched, suspicious, not kosher, peculiar, odd, queer, strange, suspect, improbable, implausible, Colloq shady, funny: There is something fishy about this deal.
fitness n. 1 aptness, appropriateness, suitability, suitableness, competence, pertinence, seemliness; eligibility, adequacy, qualification(s): There is some doubt about Henryson's fitness as a leader. 2 health, healthiness, (good) (physical) condition, vigour, well-being, (good) shape, (fine) fettle, tone, wholesomeness, salubriousness or salubrity: Tony is a fanatic about physical fitness and exercises daily.
fixation n. mania, obsession, compulsion, fixed idea, ide fixe, fetish, monomania, preoccupation, infatuation, Colloq hang-up, thing, kick: He has a health-food fixation.
fizzle v. 1 fizz: This headache powder makes the water fizzle. 2 Often, fizzle out. die (out or away), fizz out, expire, peter out, come to nothing or naught, fail, fall through, miscarry, abort, come to grief, misfire, collapse, cave in: Her grandiose plans for staging an extravaganza quickly fizzled out.
flagrant adj. blatant, brazen, bold, barefaced, audacious, arrant, glaring, outrageous, shocking, shameless, scandalous, atrocious, infamous, notorious, defiant, egregious, obvious, conspicuous, open, complete, out-and-out, utter, flagitious, monstrous, heinous, cruel, villainous, treacherous, nefarious, awful, gross, rank, inconsiderate, scornful, contemptuous; reprehensible; contemptible: Speeding shows a flagrant disregard for the safety of others.
flamboyant adj. 1 elaborate, ornamented, ornate, decorated, embellished, baroque, rococo, florid: We chose a flamboyant wallpaper with purple peacocks. 2 extravagant, ostentatious, showy, gaudy, flashy, dazzling, brilliant, splendid, dashing, rakish, swashbuckling, jaunty; high, wide, and handsome: With a flamboyant display of swordsmanship, d'Artagnan dispatched his attacker.
flank n. 1 side, quarter; loin, haunch: The enemy was about to attack our flank. The pony drew back with trembling flanks. --v. 2 edge, border, line: Armed guards flanked the entrance. 3 skirt, outmanoeuvre, outflank, circle, go (a)round: They have enough troops to flank our forces to the east.
flash n. 1 blaze, flame, flare, burst, dazzle, spark, sparkle, coruscation, fulguration, glitter, twinkle, twinkling, flicker, flickering, scintilla, scintillation, glint, shimmer, glimmer, gleam, beam, ray, shaft: There was a blinding flash of blue light and the little man was gone. 2 (sudden or momentary) display, stroke, show, manifestation, outburst, outbreak, sign, indication, exhibition; touch, hint, suggestion: She has occasional flashes of insight bordering on genius. 3 moment, (split) second, instant, twinkling (of an eye), trice, minute, Colloq two shakes (of a lamb's tail), jiffy, shake, before you can say 'Jack Robinson': In a flash he was at her side. --v. 4 burn, blaze, flame, flare, burst (out), dazzle, spark, sparkle, coruscate, fulgurate, glitter, twinkle, flicker, scintillate, shimmer, glimmer, gleam, beam, glare, shine: The light flashed every eight seconds. 5 race, speed, dash, streak, flick, tear, rush, hurry, hasten, fly, zoom, shoot, bolt, whistle; run, sprint, dart, scuttle, scamper, Colloq scoot, skedaddle, take off, whiz or whizz: The train flashed by, doing about 100. --adj. 6 dazzling, showy, ostentatious, smart, chic, Colloq swish, classy, ritzy, snazzy: Barbara's new car looks very flash. 7 See flashy, 1.
flatter v. 1 butter up, play up to, compliment, praise, fawn (on or upon), toady to, truckle to, court, curry favour with, Colloq flannel, soft-soap, oil; Slang shine or suck up to, boot-lick, Taboo kiss (someone's) arse, brown-nose: Flattering the boss won't get you a salary increase. 2 enhance, complement, suit, show to advantage: That colour flatters her complexion. 3 cajole, wheedle, coax, inveigle, beguile, sweet-talk: He was flattered into signing that contract.
flaunt v. display, show (off), parade, flourish, exhibit, sport, disport, spotlight: They were like all the other nouveaux riches who flaunt their wealth in the stylish continental resorts.
flawless adj. 1 perfect, pristine, pure, uncorrupted, chaste, virgin, intact, whole, clean, immaculate, unsullied, unspoilt, unsoiled, impeccable, unblemished, faultless, undamaged, unimpaired, spotless, untarnished: Two flawless artefacts were found in the tomb. Many envied her flawless reputation. 2 undeniable, unassailable, unimpeachable, unquestionable, irrefutable, foolproof, sound, demonstrable: The prosecutor's evidence appears to be flawless.
fleet n. armada, flotilla, navy, naval (task) force, task force, squadron, convoy, division: A fleet of submarines was sent to harass shipping in the Atlantic.
flex n. 1 wire, lead, cord, cable, extension: Replace this flex before you have a short circuit. --v. 2 bend, give, stretch, curve: The plastic tube can be flexed many times without breaking. 3 exercise, tense, tighten, contract: He flexed his muscles before lifting the weight.
flight n. 1 flying, soaring, winging, excursion: The flight above the mountains was exhilarating. He is subject to wild flights of the imagination. 2 (air) voyage or journey or trip: We had a fine flight from New Delhi. 3 aeroplane, airliner, plane, aircraft: Our flight was delayed in Istanbul. 4 flock, swarm, cloud, covey (of grouse or partridge), bevy (of quail), skein (of geese), exaltation (of larks): A flight of migrating birds passed overhead. 5 feather: The flights on this dart are broken.
flinch v. wince, draw back, withdraw, cower, cringe, recoil, start, quail, blench, shrink (from), shy (away) (from), dodge, duck: Each time he raised the whip, I flinched.
flippant adj. 1 frivolous, facetious, light-hearted, jocular, offhand(ed), unserious, shallow, thoughtless, superficial; supercilious, belittling, scornful, dismissive: I don't appreciate your flippant remarks when I'm trying to be serious. 2 disrespectful, impudent, impertinent, irreverent, saucy, rude, pert, discourteous, brazen, brash, insolent, Colloq cheeky, flip: He disapproves of Charles's flippant attitude towards the royal family.
float v. 1 hover, poise, bob, waft, be suspended, hang; sail, drift, glide, swim: In the clear Caribbean waters, the boat seemed to float in mid-air. 2 launch, establish, set up, organize, found, initiate, get going or moving: The financiers are trying to float a new company. 3 negotiate, arrange, transact, bring or carry off, get, effect, consummate, Colloq pull off, swing: Were you able to float a loan on your house? --n. 4 raft, Brit platform: I can swim out to the float. 5 buoy; pontoon: The bridge is supported by floats. 6 (parade) exhibit or display: Our parade float won first prize.
floor n. 1 flooring, parquet, boarding, planking, Nautical or colloq deck: The floor is mopped once a week. 2 storey, level; deck: On which floor is your flat? 3 minimum, bottom, base, lower limit, lowest (level): Owing to inflation, the wage floor was raised. Share prices went through the floor in today's trading. --v. 4 knock over or down, bowl over, prostrate, fell, overthrow, bring down, (make) fall; beat, defeat, conquer, destroy, rout, overwhelm, crush, whip, trounce, thrash, drub, best, worst: The champion was floored by a blow to the head. 5 stump, bewilder, baffle, dumbfound or dumfound, confuse, confound, disconcert, nonplus, perplex, puzzle, astound, astonish, amaze, surprise, shock: Alexandra was floored when she received a gift from her ex-husband.
flourish v. 1 prosper, thrive, grow, develop, luxuriate, bloom, blossom, flower, bear fruit, fructify, boom, burgeon or bourgeon, mature, ripen, increase, succeed, get ahead, do or fare well, make good; go up or rise in the world; Slang go great guns: We understand that Amy's medical practice has flourished. 2 wave, wield, brandish, wag, swing, twirl, flaunt, vaunt, swagger, swish, shake: The band-leader flourished his baton. --n. 3 decoration, embellishment, floridness, floweriness, ornamentation, elaboration, adornment, frill, embroidery, curlicue, furbelow: His signature is characterized by all these flourishes. 4 fanfare, display, show, showiness, dash, gesturing, wave: With a flourish of his hand, the king signalled the tourney to begin.
flower n. 1 blossom, bloom, floret or floweret, bud, Technical efflorescence: He brought me flowers for my birthday. 2 cream, best, pick, lite, crme de la crme, finest, choicest: The flower of the city's youth were put to death by the wicked caliph. --v. 3 blossom, bloom, bud, burgeon or bourgeon, come out, open, unfold, Technical effloresce: The century plant was so called because it was thought to flower only once every hundred years.
fluency n. articulateness, eloquence, control, command, ease, grace, effortlessness, facility, felicity, smoothness, polish, slickness, glibness, volubility: His extemporaneous speeches are marked by an enviable fluency.
fluid n. 1 liquid, solution, liquor, ichor; gas, vapour: It might surprise some to learn that physicists consider gases to be fluids. --adj. 2 liquid, flowing, running, runny, watery, aqueous: Once the metal has become fluid, it is poured into the moulds. 3 changeable, mutable, flexible, adjustable, variable, pliant, unformed, formless, unfixed, unstatic or non-static, plastic, protean, mercurial, mobile, unstable, shifting, uncertain, indefinite, unsettled: The situation is fluid and the decision could go either way.
flurry n. 1 activity, commotion, ado, to-do, fuss, upset, hubbub, pother, stir, excitement, disturbance, agitation, tumult, whirl, furore, bustle, hurry, hustle, flutter, fluster; burst, outburst; Colloq tizzy: I was happy to leave the worry and flurry of the city. There was a brief flurry of activity at the Stock Exchange today. --v. 2 confuse, bewilder, agitate, put out, disturb, excite, fluster, disconcert, upset, perturb, unsettle, shake (up), Colloq rattle: He was quite flurried by the arrival of the police.
flutter v. 1 flap, flop, fluctuate, vacillate, wave, waver, oscillate: The paper streamers fluttered in the breeze. 2 flit, flicker, flitter, hover, dance; fuss: We shall never get done if you keep fluttering about. 3 tremble, shake, quiver, dither, jump, vibrate, twitch: She is fluttering with anticipation waiting for the postman. --n. 4 fluttering, flapping, flopping, fluctuation, fluctuating, vacillation, vacillating, wave, waving, oscillation, oscillating, trembling, quiver, quivering: The slightest flutter of her fan communicates volumes. 5 See fluster, 2.
foam n. 1 bubbles, froth, spume, lather, suds; effervescence, sparkle, carbonation, fizz: The foam leaves spots when it dries. --v. 2 bubble, froth, spume, lather, suds, soap up: Watch the solution foam when I drop this tablet into it.
fogy n. Also, fogey. Usually, old fogy or fogey. conservative, relic, Colloq fuddy-duddy, fossil, antique, stick-in-the-mud, back number, square: That old fogy still dances the foxtrot.
fold v. 1 bend, ply, double (over or up), overlap, crease, pleat, gather, crimp: Fold the letter before putting it into the envelope. 2 enclose, envelop, enfold, wrap, enwrap, clasp, clip, embrace, hug, gather: He folded her in his arms. 3 give way, collapse, fail, close (up or down), shut down, go out of business, go bankrupt, Colloq go under, go broke, go bust, Brit go to the wall: The company folded and ten employees were made redundant. --n. 4 crease, wrinkle, crinkle, pucker, pleat, gather, crimp, overlap, lap: The folds will remain crisp if you use starch when ironing.
follow-through n. perseverance, diligence, persistence, steadfastness, endurance, stamina, indefatigableness, sedulousness, sedulity, pursuance, tenacity, resolve, determination, Colloq US stick-to-it-iveness: One needs imagination for new ideas but follow-through to make them succeed.
fond adj. 1 tender, loving, affectionate, warm, adoring, caring: She clasped him in a fond embrace. 2 foolish, bootless, empty, vain, nave: She had fond hopes of his being elected. 3 fond of. partial to, (having a) liking (for), soft on or about, affectionate towards, attached to, having a fancy or taste for, fancying, predisposed or inclined to or towards; addicted to, Colloq hooked on: She is inordinately fond of chocolate.
fool n. 1 simpleton, ninny, ninny-hammer, nincompoop, ass, jackass, dunce, dolt, halfwit, numskull or numbskull, blockhead, bonehead, pinhead, silly, feather-brain, loon, goose, booby, jay, goon, mooncalf, idiot, ignoramus, dim-wit, nitwit, halfwit, imbecile, moron, clod, clodpole, clodpoll, clodpate, oaf, Psychology retardate, Scots gomerel, Colloq birdbrain, dumb-bell, fat-head, chump, twit, knuckle-head, chucklehead, nit, twerp or twirp, Brit pillock, US and Canadian jerk, retard; Slang sap, dope, Brit git, Australian boofhead: He's such a fool he'll believe anything. 2 (court) jester, clown, comic, comedian or comedienne, entertainer, zany, buffoon, merry andrew, farceur, joker, jokester, droll, Punch, Punchinello, pierrot, harlequin: In Shakespeare's plays, the fool is often the wisest character. 3 butt, dupe, gull, victim, cat's-paw, Colloq chump, greenhorn, (easy) mark, US fall guy; Slang pigeon, sucker, stooge, Brit mug: His co-workers liked to make a fool out of him. --v. 4 trick, deceive, take in, swindle, defraud, hoax, cheat, fleece, cozen, hoodwink, bluff, dupe, gull, humbug, delude, mislead, make a fool of; pull the wool over (someone's) eyes, have (someone) on, pull (someone's) leg, tease, twit, Archaic chouse; Colloq kid, con, snow, do a snow job on, bamboozle, put one or something over on, pull something or a fast one on, Brit twist, Chiefly US and Canadian josh; Slang pluck, Brit nobble: When he said the diamond was fake, he certainly fooled me. I think she was fooling when she said she'd inherited millions. 5 joke, jest, banter, tease, twit, feign, fake, pretend, make believe, Colloq kid: She insists that she is not fooling but dead serious. 6 fool with or around or about (with). play (around or about) (with), toy or trifle (with), mess or fiddle (around or about) (with), monkey (around or about) with, meddle (with), tamper with, fribble (with): Please stop fooling with the dials on the radio. 7 fool around or about. a play or mess around or about, gambol, frolic, romp, cavort: Stop fooling around and get serious. b waste or fritter away or squander or kill time, fribble, loiter, dawdle, idle, Brit potter (about), lark or muck about or around, US putter around or about, Colloq footle: She's always fooling around instead of getting on with her work.
footing n. 1 foundation, basis, base, ground(s): The events put our entire relationship on a new footing. 2 standing, status, level, condition, position, terms, state, rank: The two departments are on an equal footing as far as funding is concerned. 3 foothold, toe-hold; balance, stability: She lost her footing on the icy pavement and down she went.
forbidding adj. 1 repellent, repulsive, offensive, odious, abhorrent: In his long cloak and mask, he presented a forbidding appearance. 2 hostile, unfriendly, stern, harsh, menacing, threatening, ominous, dangerous, bad, nasty, ugly, unpleasant: The coast here is rocky and forbidding. The old crone gave him a forbidding look and we cringed.
forcible adj. 1 See forceful, 2. 2 drastic, forceful, violent, aggressive, coercive, severe, stringent: The plan involves the forcible repatriation of refugees.
foregone adj. Usually in foregone conclusion. assumed, established, pre-established, predetermined, fixed, inevitable, set, accepted, cut and dried: His incarceration for the crime was a foregone conclusion.
foremost adj. 1 first, primary, prime, leading, pre-eminent, supreme; prominent, notable, noteworthy, noted, chief, paramount, main, best, superior: She is one of the foremost eye surgeons in her country. --adv. 2 first, firstly, primarily, primarily, in (the) first place, before anything else: First and foremost, we must consider the matter of safety.
foresight n. 1 providence, prudence, care, far-sightedness, watchfulness, caution, precaution, long-sightedness, perspicacity, wisdom, sagacity, insight, circumspection: The commander demonstrated foresight in ordering a retreat. 2 prevision, perception, prospect, vision, foreknowledge, prescience; expectation: A little foresight could have prevented the calamity.
foreword n. preface, prologue, prelude, prolegomenon, preamble, Literary proem; introduction: He set forth the purpose of the book in the foreword.
forget v. 1 fail or cease to remember or recall or think of, lose, draw a blank: I forgot what I was supposed to buy at the market. 2 leave (behind), omit or neglect (doing or taking): I forgot my umbrella this morning. 3 ignore, dismiss from (one's) mind or thoughts, disregard, overlook, consign to oblivion: Forget the fact that you ever met me.
forgiving adj. tolerant, lenient, sparing, forbearing, merciful, compassionate, conciliatory, magnanimous, humane, soft-hearted, clement: In a forgiving mood, the judge gave her a light sentence.
formal adj. 1 standard, conventional, customary, established, prescribed, regular, normal, correct, proper; strict, formulaic, inflexible, punctilious, exacting, unchanging, methodical, orderly, systematic, set, pro forma, ritual, ritualistic, ceremonial, proper, official, routine, fixed, rigid, stiff, stilted, stately, starched, unbending, solemn; confining, straitened, limited; Colloq straight, square: Formal rules of behaviour are observed. 2 explicit, express, definite, spelled out, formalized, express, authorized, official, solemn, legal, lawful: Formal demands have been made for the withdrawal of our ambassador. 3 prim, ceremonious, dignified, stuffy, strait-laced, stiff, precise, exact: He made a formal bow and left our company.
former adj. 1 previous, earlier, prior, ex-, one-time, preceding, erstwhile, late, latest, last, recent, ci-devant, quondam, Archaic whilom: I ran into a former girl-friend at the art show. 2 old, past, bygone; ancient, (pre)historic, departed, antediluvian: In former times, one could demand - and get decent service.
formulate v. 1 systematize, codify, define, specify, articulate, particularize, denote: You must try to formulate your ideas more clearly. 2 devise, originate, create, think up or of, dream up, conceive, concoct, invent, improvise, Colloq cook up: I have formulated a plan in my mind to deal with the problem. 3 develop, forge, evolve, work out, design, map out, block out, draw up: You have three days to formulate a workable procedure.
forthright adj. straightforward, direct, blunt, candid, frank, above-board, unambiguous, unequivocal, open, outspoken, uninhibited, unreserved, unconstrained, unrestrained: She has always been forthright and honest in her dealings with me.
fortune n. 1 position, worth, means, assets, holdings, wealth, property, estate, possessions; wealth, riches, affluence, opulence, treasure, money, prosperity: Each member is liable to the full extent of his fortune. He acquired his fortune from oil. 2 luck, chance, fortuity; lot, fate, kismet, destiny, karma; future; US happenstance: It was just fortune that put me in the right place at the right time. She'll tell your fortune if you cross her palm with silver. 3 Usually, fortunes. circumstance(s), experience(s), adventures, expectation(s), lot: My fortunes of late have been poor.
foul adj. 1 offensive, loathsome, disgusting, obnoxious, revolting, repulsive, repellent, repugnant, sickening, nauseous, nauseating, nasty, beastly, Archaic fulsome: The bartender makes a foul concoction he swears will cure a hangover. 2 filthy, unclean, nasty, polluted, putrid, putrescent, putrefactive or putrefacient, defiled, soiled, spoiled, rotten, decayed, decomposed, rancid, soured, turned, tainted, mouldy, impure, adulterated, contaminated, stale, bad, Brit off: The hamburger place was closed when public health inspectors found foul food in the freezer. 3 smelly, stinking, noisome, fetid or foetid, rank, evil-smelling, foul-smelling, malodorous, musty, mephitic, graveolent: A foul odour emanated from the cabinet. 4 wicked, vile, bad, base, abominable, low, sordid, iniquitous, evil, flagitious, atrocious, monstrous, nefarious, sinful, immoral, amoral, vicious, villainous, scandalous, infamous, dishonourable, shameful, disgraceful, ignominious; detestable: They were finally brought to justice for their foul deeds. 5 dirty, obscene, filthy, profane, scatological, gross, smutty, foul-mouthed, blue, licentious, salacious, lewd, indecent, improper, coarse, uncouth, vulgar, rude, scurrilous, rough, indelicate, immodest, risqu, off colour, suggestive, bawdy, ribald, Rabelaisian, Fescennine, US raw, Slang raunchy: My mother forbids my reading books containing foul language. 6 abusive, offensive, affronting, insulting, disparaging, maligning, thersitical, calumnious or calumniatory, aspersive, slanderous, defamatory, libellous, denigrating, derogatory, deprecatory or deprecative, depreciatory or depreciative, denunciatory or denunciative, derisory, derisive, scornful, belittling, fulminous, objurgatory or objurgative, vituperative, invective: Keep your foul tongue to yourself. 7 dishonest, unfair, unjust, unsportsmanlike, dishonourable, fraudulent, underhand(ed), double-dealing, two-faced, corrupt, venal, dirty, treacherous, perfidious, traitorous, unscrupulous, Colloq crooked, shady, Slang chiefly Brit bent: Thrupp will get his way by fair means or foul. 8 nasty, dangerous, rough, disagreeable, unfavourable, sloppy, stormy, adverse; windy, blustery; snowy, sleety, wet, rainy: We ran into a spot of foul weather at Dover. 9 obstructed, blocked, choked, stopped (up), plugged (up), clogged (up): The drain is foul with all that rubbish. 10 tangled, entangled, caught, ensnared, enmeshed, snarled: A foul anchor is a common nautical symbol. 11 illegal, prohibited, forbidden, interdicted, not fair; dirty: In boxing a hit below the belt is a foul blow. --v. 12 dirty, pollute, sully, befoul, defile, soil, contaminate, adulterate, taint: Effluent from the factory was fouling the river. 13 tangle, entangle, catch, snare, ensnare, enmesh, snag, snarl, jam, twist: We can't hoist the mainsail because the halyard is fouled. 14 disgrace, dishonour, sully, taint, besmirch, defile, soil, stain, smear, tarnish, blacken, denigrate, debase, degrade, abase, demean, disparage, defame, derogate, asperse, devaluate, depreciate, vitiate, belittle, discredit, bring or call into disrepute: That act of treachery will foul the family name for generations. 15 obstruct, block, choke, stop or plug or clog (up): Dead leaves fouled the downpipe. 16 foul up. a See def. 13 mismanage, mishandle, botch, bungle, make a mess (of), mess up, spoil, ruin, Colloq muff, Brit throw a spanner in(to) (the works), US throw a monkey wrench into (the machinery); Slang muck up, goof (up), blow, screw up, louse up, Chiefly Brit bugger (up), US and Canadian snafu: Give him a chance and he's sure to foul up. She fouled up my hi-fi. --n. 17 violation, infringement, infraction, illegality: The Rangers' forward has already been charged with two fouls. --adv. 18 afoul, in conflict, in trouble, in violation: Curshaw has fallen foul of the law again.
founder n. originator, creator, progenitor, author, framer, father, architect, designer, builder, initiator, establisher, institutor: Today we honour the founder of this great university.
foxy adj. 1 clever, sly, cunning, wily, crafty, tricky, guileful, shifty, devious, slippery, smooth, slick, artful, resourceful, ingenious, calculating, designing, plotting, scheming, disingenuous, knowing, shrewd, sharp, astute, wise; foxlike, vulpine; Colloq cagey or cagy: Be careful dealing with him, for he can be foxy. 2 attractive, alluring, seductive, vampish, Colloq sexy: Margo is a very foxy lady.
fragment n. 1 piece, portion, part, chip, shard or sherd, splinter, sliver, scrap, bit, speck, snippet, morsel, crumb, particle, remnant, shred, snatch: A fragment of the airliner was found twenty miles from the crash. 2 fragments. smithereens; debris, Literary disjecta membra: The car was blown into thousands of fragments. I tried to pick up the fragments of my former life. --v. 3 shatter, splinter, break or split (up), explode, disintegrate, come or go to pieces, come apart: I picked up the skull and it fragmented in my fingers.
frail adj. 1 See fragile. 2 ailing, unwell, ill, sick, sickly, poorly, thin, skinny, slight, puny, scrawny, wasting or fading away, languishing, infirm, feeble; crippled, consumptive, phthisic: She is too frail to see visitors.
frantic adj. frenzied, excited, frenetic, nervous, overwrought, excitable, wrought up, distracted, distraught, beside oneself, hysterical, wild, berserk, mad, running amok; upset, agitated, perturbed, at one's wit's end, disconcerted, confused; hectic; Colloq in a state, in a tizzy, up the wall, in a dither, out of one's mind, Chiefly US and Canadian discombobulated: They are frantic because they haven't heard from Edmund in a week.
fraud n. 1 deception, trickery, cheating, sharp practice, chicanery, deceit, swindling, double-dealing, duplicity, artifice, craft, guile, humbug, humbuggery, treachery, Colloq monkey business, funny business, hanky-panky: The company directors have been convicted of fraud. 2 trick, hoax, swindle, deception, cheat, wile, stratagem, dodge, bilk, ruse, sham, fake, subterfuge, Colloq flimflam, Slang gyp, rip-off, scam: The investigation exposed extensive fraud in the handling of local government funds. 3 deceiver, trickster, cheat(er), impostor, swindler, charlatan, humbug, sharper, shark, bilk(er), quack, mountebank, fake(r), pretender, bluff(er), confidence man, inveigler, defrauder; scoundrel, rogue, Archaic knave; Colloq con man or artist, phoney or US also phony, flimflam artist, flimflammer, US and Canadian four-flusher; Slang US barracuda: He is a fraud who extracts protection money from the elderly.
fray v. shred, wear (thin or threadbare), wear out, rub, abrade, chafe, ravel, unravel, frazzle: He saves his frayed shirts to wear at home.
freely adv. 1 candidly, frankly, openly, unreservedly, without reserve, unrestrainedly, without restraint, unconstrainedly, without constraint, unceremoniously, plainly: Please speak freely. 2 willingly, spontaneously, readily, voluntarily, on (one's) own, independently, of (one's) own accord, of (one's) own volition or free will: I didn't send for her - she came to me freely. 3 unrestrainedly, unrestrictedly, without restriction, without let or hindrance, without interference: He was allowed to move freely about the island. 4 liberally, lavishly, unreservedly, generously, unstintingly, open-handedly, ungrudgingly, munificently, amply, plentifully, abundantly: He has no money to donate but he gives freely of his time. 5 readily, easily, smoothly, cleanly, unobstructedly: With the obstacle removed, the water ran freely through the pipes.
frequent adj. 1 recurrent, recurring, habitual, regular, familiar, everyday, customary, usual, ordinary, normal, common, repeated, iterative, reiterative, persistent, continuing, continual, constant; many, numerous, countless, innumerable: She was a frequent visitor at our house. She paid us frequent visits. --v. 2 haunt, patronize, visit, resort to, go to or attend regularly, Colloq hang out or around at: Yes, Inspector, I used to frequent the pub called The Saracen's Head.
fret v. 1 worry, be concerned, agonize, lose sleep, be upset or distressed or anxious or disturbed, grieve, brood, whine, fuss, complain, Colloq stew, tear one's hair: Your kitten is safe now, so stop fretting. 2 worry, concern, distress, vex, annoy, irritate, torment, provoke, US rankle: She fretted herself about Henry's health.
friendly adj. 1 amicable, congenial, sociable, companionable, comradely, convivial, familiar, well-disposed, close, on good terms, simpatico, comfortable, at home, neighbourly, clubby, fraternal, brotherly, sisterly, Colloq chummy, pally, thick, Brit matey, US palsy-walsy, buddy-buddy: We've always been friendly with the people next door. 2 amiable, affectionate, loving, demonstrative, cordial, warm-hearted, warm, genial, agreeable, good-natured, pleasant, kind, kindly, kind-hearted, agreeable, affable, approachable, accessible, unreserved, open, Brit clubbable: Clare can be very friendly when she wants to be.
frightening adj. terrifying, alarming, startling, shocking, petrifying, horrifying, dismaying, appalling, unnerving, dire, distressing, daunting, intimidating, formidable, frightful, fearful, hair-raising, harrowing, dreadful, Colloq scary, spooky: Skydiving can be a frightening experience. The sight of their mangled bodies was frightening.
frill n. 1 trimming, decoration, ornament, furbelow, flounce, ruffle: This dress would be suitable without the frill. 2 ornamentation, frippery, falderal or fal de rol or folderol, frou-frou, showiness, ostentation, embellishment, luxury, trimming, extra, addition, superfluity, gewgaw, (bit of) paraphernalia, Colloq US foofaraw, bells and whistles, Slang jazz: They ordered a computer system that has every imaginable frill.
fritter v. fritter away. squander, waste, idle away, misspend, dissipate: Stop frittering away your time watching television. She frittered away every penny of her inheritance.
front n. 1 face, faade, facing, fore-part, anterior; obverse: The front of the door has a painting on it. This dress buttons up the front. 2 frontage, forefront: The front of the property measures only 40 feet. 3 beginning, head, fore, vanguard, forefront, van: At the front of the parade marched the mayor. 4 bearing, demeanour, mien, air, face, countenance, faade, mask, expression, show, appearance, aspect, look, exterior: Despite her grief, she put on a brave front at the wake. 5 disguise, cover, guise, mask, cover-up, show, pretext, faade: The restaurant was merely a front for a narcotics operation. 6 movement, organization, league, bloc, party, group, faction, wing: A new popular front was formed out of a coalition of several opposition groups. 7 haughtiness, overconfidence, effrontery: He frightens away potential clients by showing so much front. 8 in front. first, leading, ahead, to the fore, in the forefront, in the vanguard or van, in advance, in the lead, before; winning: In this picture the man in front is my father. My horse was in front all the way. 9 upfront. a See 8, above. b open, straightforward, honest, direct, forthright, frank, candid: Why can't you be upfront instead of conspiring against me? --adj. 10 first, advance, foremost, leading, head; main: The front carriage was smashed in the train wreck. Enter by the front door. --v. 11 overlook, face, look out on or towards, be opposite: Our house fronts the river. The flat fronts on the street. 12 front for. act for, represent; substitute for, replace: I hate formal affairs and hoped that you might front for me.
frugal adj. 1 thrifty, sparing, economic(al), careful, prudent, provident, saving, conservative, conservational, moderate: Mother had to become quite frugal when father fell ill. 2 parsimonious, penurious, penny-pinching, cheese-paring, mean, miserly, stingy, niggardly, tight(-fisted), close(-fisted), hand to mouth: He led a frugal existence on his earnings as an artist. 3 meagre, paltry, poor, skimpy, scant(y), small, negligible, piddling: His frugal meal consisted entirely of bread and water.
fruitless adj. barren, unfruitful, unproductive, worthless, bootless, futile, pointless, useless, vain, idle, unavailing, ineffectual, ineffective, unprofitable, for naught, to no avail, unsuccessful, unrewarding, abortive: Our search for a new manager has so far been fruitless.
fulfil v. 1 bring about, achieve, accomplish, bring or carry to completion, carry out, complete, consummate, discharge, live up to, abide by, observe, realize, effect, bring or carry off, carry through, keep, satisfy, do, perform, execute, effectuate, achieve: I trust that you will fulfil all your obligations. Will she ever fulfil her ambition to be a virtuoso pianist? 2 answer, satisfy, meet, implement, look or see to, conform to or with, comply with, obey: This hammer will fulfil my needs for the moment. Will your new assistant be able to fulfil your requirements?
fume v. 1 seethe, smoulder, chafe, boil, rage, storm, rant, flare up, bluster, lose one's temper, explode, Colloq get steamed (up) (over or about), lose one's cool, flip one's lid, flip (out), fly off the handle, hit the roof, raise the roof, blow one's top or stack, get hot under the collar, blow a gasket, go off the deep end: She was fuming because I was five minutes late. 2 smoke: The mixture fumes if you add these ingredients. --n. 3 Usually, fumes. smoke, vapour, effluvium, gas, exhalation, exhaust; smell, odour, aroma, fragrance, stench, stink, miasma; pollution, smog: The fumes from O C Cabot's cigar spread through the building.
functional adj. 1 utilitarian, useful, serviceable, practical, practicable, functioning, working; essential, important, effective: This gear is a functional part, not mere decoration. 2 working, operating, operational, running, going: Is this telephone functional?
funeral n. obsequies, exequies; burial, interment, sepulture, entombment, inhumation; cremation: It is fitting to wear black when attending a funeral.
furnish v. 1 supply, provide, afford, equip, outfit, fit (out or up), rig (out or up), provision, give, stock up, Colloq Brit kit out or up: The trading post furnished what we needed for a month in the wilderness. Can you furnish me with a blanket? 2 decorate, equip: She received a commission to furnish a ten-room house. furniture n. 1 furnishings, household (goods); movables, chattels, paraphernalia, effects, possessions, belongings, Colloq gear, things, stuff, Slang shit: There wasn't any furniture in the room, not even a chair. 2 fittings, fitments, equipment, fixtures, apparatus, devices, tackle, tack, trappings, gear, accoutrements or US also accouterments, accessories, appliances, Colloq Brit clobber: The front door has some fine brass furniture.
furtive adj. 1 secret, private, secretive, clandestine, surreptitious, stealthy, underhand(ed), covert, hidden, conspiratorial, skulking, deceitful, under the table, under the counter, hugger-mugger, Colloq sneaky: She gave me a furtive look to let me know she was on to me. 2 sly, foxy, cunning, crafty, wily, shifty, untrustworthy, Colloq sneaky: His furtive manoeuvres mark him as one not to be trusted.
fussy adj. 1 particular, finicky, finical, dainty, discriminating, difficult, fastidious, exacting, demanding, Colloq picky, choosy, nit-picking, pernickety or US also persnickety: He's so fussy that he'll wear only custom-made shoes. 2 fancy, elaborate, over-decorated, gingerbread, rococo, ornate, detailed, Byzantine: The style is a bit too fussy for my taste.
gab v. 1 jabber, gabble, chatter, gibber, blather or blether, prate, prattle, blab, gossip, Colloq Brit natter, witter, Slang jaw, yack, US run off at the mouth: Stop gabbing and get on with your work! --n. 2 chatter, chit-chat, prattle, jibber-jabber, jabber, gossip, blarney, blather or blether, tittle-tattle; cackle, moonshine, nonsense, drivel, twaddle, rubbish, gobbledegook or gobbledygook, mumbo-jumbo, poppycock, bunk or bunkum, balderdash, stuff and nonsense, hogwash, eyewash, Colloq piffle, flummery, rot, bull, codswallop, Slang bullshit, horseshit, shit, crap, garbage, Chiefly Brit tosh, balls: He had nothing important to say - just a lot of gab.
gag n. 1 joke, witticism, jest, quip, pun, gibe, Colloq wisecrack, Slang crack: He told some gags but nobody found them funny. 2 practical joke, hoax, prank, trick, Colloq fast one: For a gag, we put a snake in the sergeant's bed.
gala n. 1 fte or fete, festival, festivity, feast, celebration, event, red-letter day, holiday, holy day, carnival, occasion, happening, event, pageant, party, ball; field-day: The annual gala is planned for Midsummer's Eve. --adj. 2 merry, festive, joyful, joyous, gleeful, jovial, gay, celebratory, jolly, convivial, happy, cheerful, cheery: Her home-coming was a gala occasion.
gallant adj. 1 brave, courageous, bold, valiant, daring, dauntless, intrepid, plucky, fearless, valorous, unafraid, undaunted, manly, manful, plucky, mettlesome, stout-hearted, lion-hearted, heroic, dashing, (high-)spirited: Three gallant soldiers held off the enemy attack. 2 chivalrous, courtly, courteous, polite, attentive, gentlemanly, noble, gracious, considerate, thoughtful, well-bred, mannerly: What man is so gallant today as to give up his seat on a bus to a lady? 3 dignified, elegant, imposing, grand, noble, glorious, fine, splendid, majestic, stately, magnificent: Overwhelmed by four enemy men o' war, the gallant ship sank beneath the waves. --n. 4 champion, hero, knight, cavalier, paladin: Which gallant wears her scarf on his sleeve in today's jousts? 5 lover, Romeo, sweetheart, beloved, paramour, boyfriend, beau, escort, suitor, admirer, Literary swain: In those days, gallants continually sent their ladies gifts and flowers.
game n. 1 amusement, pastime, diversion, distraction, recreation, play; sport: She regards love as just a game. 2 contest, competition, meeting or US also meet, tournament or US also tourney, match, encounter, engagement, event, round; regatta: Would you like to see a football game? The games are held annually. 3 scheme, plan, plot, design, stratagem, strategy, tactic, artifice, trick, device(s), ploy: Aha! I am on to your little game! 4 occupation, line (of work), job, position, field, business, trade, profession, Slang racket: She is in the advertising game. 5 quarry, prey; victim, target: Game has been plentiful this year, especially pheasant and quail. He is fair game for any unscrupulous swindler. 6 play games. dissemble, dissimulate, be deceitful or underhand, misrepresent, pretend, practise deceit or deception, fake, feign: She wasn't serious about selling, she was just playing games. --adj. 7 ready, willing, prepared; plucky or spirited or daring or adventurous enough: She's game for anything: I'm sure she'll jump at the chance of scuba-diving lessons. 8 plucky, spirited, high-spirited, daring, devil-may-care, adventurous, unflinching, courageous, brave, bold, heroic, Colloq nervy, gutsy: Entering the cave to rescue the dog was a game thing for him to do. --v. 9 gamble: He has taken up gaming as a hobby.
gap n. 1 opening, space, aperture, distance, hole, void, gulf, cavity, break, breach, crevice, chink, crack, split, division, cleft, rift, rip, tear, rent; interruption, interval, lacuna, hiatus, discontinuity, disruption; lull, pause, rest, recess, halt, stop, suspension, delay, wait, intermission, respite: The gap between the walls is just big enough for a child. I can see through a gap in the curtain. There is a gap in his payment record. 2 difference, divergence, disparity, disagreement, inconsistency, discrepancy; division, distinction: A gap exists between your ideas of justice and mine.
garish adj. gaudy, flashy, glaring, cheap, tawdry, florid, raffish, vulgar, harsh, loud, meretricious, Brummagem, showy, crude, tasteless, Colloq flash, Slang US glitzy: Their flat is filled with the most garish decorations.
gash n. 1 cut, slash, wound, score, cleft, incision, laceration, slit, groove, split: The chisel slipped, cutting a deep gash in the table. --v. 2 cut, slash, wound, score, cleave, incise, lacerate, slit, groove, split: I've gashed my hand on a rusty nail.
gathering n. assembly, convocation, convention, congress, assemblage, meeting, get-together, turnout, conclave, rally, aggregation: There is a gathering of the clan once a year.
gawk n. 1 oaf, lout, bumpkin, clod, boor, churl, dolt, dunderhead or dunderpate, ninny, ninny-hammer, ignoramus, fool, simpleton, ass, bungler, bumbler, Colloq clodhopper, lummox, Slang chiefly US old-fashioned galoot or galloot, lug: You big gawk, get out of my way! --v. 2 stare, goggle, gape, Colloq rubberneck, Slang Brit gawp or gaup: Stop gawking and help me get him to a hospital.
gem n. 1 gemstone, jewel, stone, precious or semiprecious stone: The crown was set with rubies and other precious gems. 2 ideal, quintessence, perfect example; pearl (of great price), marvel, flower, lite, cream, crme de la crme, pick, nonpareil, treasure, prize, masterpiece, chef-d'oeuvre: This is a perfect gem of a painting. The vale of Grasmere is a gem in the diadem of the Lake District.
generate v. 1 produce, create, originate, make, manufacture: At these stations we can generate 1000 megawatts of electricity. 2 spawn, father, sire, bring into being, procreate, breed, beget, engender, propagate: This one fish would generate millions of offspring if all survived. 3 produce, create, give rise to, inspire, whip up, cause, initiate: Her good fortune generated in him a feeling of envy. 4 produce, create, invent, coin, make up, fabricate, fashion, devise, develop, form, forge, mould, contrive, construct, put together: We must generate a new theory to account for these phenomena.
genitals n.pl. genitalia, sexual or reproductive organs, sex organs, organs of procreation or generation, private parts, privates: They wore loincloths to cover their genitals.
gentle adj. 1 kind, kindly, mild, tender, benign, moderate, easy, quiet, calm, still, temperate, unruffled, untroubled, undisturbed, tranquil, restful, peaceful, pacific, placid, smooth, lenient, patient, indulgent, soothing, thoughtful, gracious, compassionate, humane, tender-hearted, merciful; soft, light, balmy: Amy is very gentle with the patients. A gentle breeze barely stirred the leaves. The gentle waves belied the terror that lurked below. 2 tame, tractable, docile, manageable, controllable; broken: As he's a beginner, he's been given a gentle mare to ride. 3 gradual, easy, moderate: The car rolled down the gentle slope and stopped.
gesture n. 1 movement, motion, gesticulation, signal, indication, action, Colloq US high sign: She made a gesture of dismissal. 2 formality, move; gambit, ploy; token, indication, symbol: Sending her flowers was a friendly gesture. Their burning the flag was a gesture of defiance. --v. 3 motion, gesticulate, signal, sign, indicate, Colloq US give (someone) the high sign: He gestured for me to step forward.
get-up n. 1 costume, outfit; rig: He came in a diver's get-up. 2 format, layout, arrangement, structure, look, style: Who is responsible for the magazine's new get-up?
ghostly adj. 1 spectral, ghost-like, wraithlike, phantasmal, phantom, eerie, unreal, unnatural, supernatural, preternatural, unearthly, sinister, strange, uncanny, weird, Colloq spooky, scary, creepy: I heard a ghostly voice calling my name. 2 See ghastly, 2, above.
giddy adj. 1 dizzy, faint, unsteady, light-headed, vertiginous, reeling, Colloq woozy: This medication may make you feel a bit giddy. 2 silly, frivolous, scatterbrained, flighty, capricious, irresponsible, erratic, fickle, volatile, impulsive, reckless, whimsical: You can't marry a giddy young girl like Peggy.
gimmick n. 1 device, strategy, stratagem, ploy, trick, ruse, wile, subterfuge, manoeuvre, artifice, deception, trap, snare, US hook, Colloq dodge: We need some sort of gimmick to attract buyers. 2 device, contrivance, gadget, invention, Colloq contraption, widget, thingumbob or thingumabob or thingamabob, thingumajig or thingamajig or thingummy, whatchamacallit, what's-its-name, Brit doodah, US doohickey, doodad, hickey, whosis, whatsis, dingus, Rube Goldberg (invention), Chiefly US and Canadian gismo or gizmo: He uses some kind of gimmick to break into cars.
gist n. essence, core, heart, substance, point, theme, quintessence, pith, meat, marrow, focus, nub, significance, (main or basic) idea; direction, drift: It will save time if I tell you the gist of the argument.
glad adj. 1 happy, pleased, contented, gratified, satisfied; delighted, thrilled, joyful, overjoyed, tickled, Colloq tickled pink or to death, pleased as Punch, Slang Brit chuffed: I am genuinely glad to see you. 2 (ready and) willing, happy, keen, eager, (well-)disposed, inclined, ready: I would be glad to help you, madam.
glamour n. allure, fascination, charm, attractiveness, brilliance, glitter, attraction, magnetism, charisma, captivation, desirability, appeal, enchantment, bewitchment, witchcraft, sorcery, magic: Who today can match the glamour of the movie stars of the '30s?
glass n. 1 glassware, crystal: Use the best glass for the party. 2 mirror, looking-glass: He constantly looks at himself in the glass. 3 window, pane, window-pane, plate glass: The children pressed their noses against the glass of the toy shop. 4 tumbler, drinking-glass, beaker, goblet: May I have a glass of beer? 5 barometer: The glass fell as the storm approached. 6 lens, magnifying glass, telescope, spyglass, microscope: Look at this drop of water through the glass. 7 glasses. spectacles, eyeglasses, lorgnon, lorgnette, opera-glasses, binoculars, field-glasses, bifocals, trifocals, goggles, sun-glasses, Colloq specs: These are my reading glasses.
glee n. delight, exuberance, cheerfulness, high or good spirits, cheer, exhilaration, elation, exultation, joy, happiness, rapture, gladness, felicity, pleasure, joyfulness, merriment, jubilation, joyousness, joviality, jollity, gaiety, mirthfulness; enjoyment, satisfaction, Schadenfreude: We watched with great glee as the villain was thwarted.
glisten v. shine, reflect, glint, glimmer, gleam, sparkle, glitter, wink, blink; glow, gleam, twinkle: The lamplight glistened on his wet coat. A tear glistened on her cheek.
globe n. 1 earth, world, planet, Terra: Our family is scattered all round the globe. 2 sphere, ball, orb; globule: On the table was a lamp with a green glass globe.
glorify v. 1 elevate, exalt, raise (up), upgrade, promote, advance, boost, enhance, dignify, ennoble, immortalize: Winning first prize glorified his reputation considerably. In her book she glorifies motherhood. These men are glorified by their heroism. 2 canonize, deify, idolize, revere, venerate, sanctify, worship, pay tribute or homage to, ennoble, idealize, apotheosize, eulogize, panegyrize, adore, honour, look up to, celebrate, extol, praise, laud, commend, hail, lionize, applaud, acclaim: The world glorified Lindbergh for the first solo flight across the Atlantic.
gloss n. 1 explanation, interpretation, exegesis, explication, definition, elucidation, comment, commentary, annotation, critique, criticism, analysis, footnote; translation: Some editions of Shakespeare give glosses of difficult words and phrases at the foot of each page. --v. 2 comment on or upon, explain, interpret, explicate, define, elucidate, annotate, criticize, analyse, review, US critique; translate: Johnson was not the first to gloss the word 'pastern'. 3 See gloss, 4, above.
glowing adj. 1 aglow, incandescent, burning, lambent, luminous, candent; smouldering: I stirred the glowing embers. 2 rich, warm, vibrant, bright, brilliant: Banners in glowing colours enlivened the hall. He is in glowing health. 3 laudatory, complimentary, enthusiastic, eulogistic, rhapsodic, favourable, encomiastic, panegyrical: The critics described her performance in glowing terms.
glutton n. trencherman, gormandizer, gourmand or gormand, overeater, hog, pig, Grangousier, Colloq greedy-guts, Slang Brit gannet, US chowhound: Like the glutton that he is, he asked for more after eating an enormous meal.
gnaw v. 1 chew, nibble, eat, bite, champ: The marks were made by deer gnawing the bark. 2 erode, eat away, corrode, wear down or away, fret, consume, devour: The acid continues to gnaw away at the metal till it is gone. 3 fret, irritate, harry, hector, pester, worry, bother, plague, trouble, torment, torture, distress, badger, harass, haunt, nag, vex, gall, nettle, irk, peeve, annoy: The feeling that something was very wrong continued to gnaw at her.
gob n. chunk, piece, blob, lump, gobbet, morsel, fragment, bite: She took a gob of peanut butter and spread it on the bread.
god n. deity, demigod, demiurge, divinity, spirit, immortal, genius, power, tutelary, numen: Throughout man's sojourn on earth he has worshipped many gods.
godsend n. gift, blessing, benediction, boon, windfall, bonanza, stroke of (good) fortune, piece or bit of (good) luck: The Red Cross parcels were a godsend to the prisoners of war.
good adj. 1 agreeable, satisfactory, commendable, acceptable, fair, adequate, admissible, tolerable, all right, passable, Colloq okay or OK: According to the reviews, the new opera is good but not great. 2 admirable, outstanding, first-rate, first-class, fine, superb, superior, tiptop, extraordinary, exemplary, choice, excellent, capital, marvellous, wonderful, splendid, sterling, Colloq super(-duper), great, smashing, A1 or A-1 or A-one, Brit cracking, brilliant, amazing, ace, knockout, brill, fantastic, terrific, unbelievable, groovy, fab, fabulous, crucial, serious, US bad, Old-fashioned Brit tickety-boo, No. Eng. champion, Chiefly US A-OK: I thought that was a really good dinner. 3 correct, proper, decorous, orderly, right, seemly, fit, fitting, suitable, meet, appropriate, allowable, permissible, admissible, passable, satisfactory, tolerable: He should get time off for good behaviour. 4 obedient, well-behaved, proper, well-mannered: Why can't you be a good boy when we go out? 5 moral, high-minded, righteous, noble, wholesome, chaste, pure, honourable, ethical, upstanding, upright, virtuous, worthy, lofty, elevated, saintly, angelic, godly, godlike: Think only good thoughts and still you may not get to heaven. 6 kind, benevolent, beneficent, gracious, gentle, kindly, nice, considerate, friendly, solicitous, good-hearted, sympathetic, benign, charitable, humane, kind-hearted, well-disposed: Her parents have always been good to me. 7 fresh, unspoilt, edible, consumable, palatable: These eggs are good but the milk has gone off. 8 genuine, valid, legitimate, authentic, honest, proper, reliable, secure, dependable, safe, creditable, sound, solid, substantial, well-founded, trustworthy, honest, actual, real; credible, believable, convincing, compelling, cogent: Have you a good reason for saying that? 9 honourable, esteemed, respected, respectable, well-thought-of, reputable, established, solid: They say that he comes from a good family. 10 well-proportioned, shapely, attractive: Yes, I'd say that Marilyn has a good figure. 11 thorough, complete, penetrating, careful: Has she had a good look at the defendant? 12 gifted, talented, competent, capable, skilful, clever, accomplished, proficient, adept, adroit, skilled: Am I a good enough actor to audition for the part? 13 advantageous, propitious, opportune, beneficial, profitable, favourable; safe, secure, reliable, sound, sensible: Are utilities a good investment? Is this a good time to buy shares? 14 healthy, salubrious, salutary, beneficial, wholesome: We'll have to put you on a good diet. 15 best, company, Sunday, special-occasion, most luxurious: Should we use the good glasses tonight? 16 ample, sufficient, adequate, considerable, full, extensive, sizeable, large, substantial: We have a good supply of food available. 17 approving, complimentary, flattering, positive, favourable, enthusiastic, laudatory, eulogistic, encomiastic: His book received a very good review in the Sunday supplement. 18 great, considerable, sizeable, substantial, fair: We are still a good distance away from land. --n. 19 benefit, advantage, profit, use, usefulness, gain, worth, avail: What good does it do to complain? 20 goodness, morality, virtue, merit, righteousness, right, rectitude, worth, probity, virtuousness, integrity, nobility, high-mindedness, honourableness, honesty: The evil that men do lives after them, The good is oft interred with their bones. 21 goods. a possessions, (personal) property, chattels, things, gear, belongings, effects, paraphernalia, movables, stuff: He's gone and he's taken all his goods with him. b merchandise, commodities, wares, stock, produce, tangibles, assets: We shall pay on delivery of the goods. c US and Canadian (incriminating) evidence or proof or information or documentation or facts or data: The police have the goods on the murderer. d fabric, cloth, textile, material, yard goods, piece-goods: My tailor said he had made it from the best goods available. e freight: A goods train had broken down on the line between Oxford and Banbury.
good-natured adj. good-humoured, friendly, agreeable, genial, gracious, good-hearted, pleasant, mellow, easygoing, considerate, nice, kind, kindly, kind-hearted, tender-hearted, charitable, tolerant, generous, courteous, cordial, warm, warm-hearted, amiable, amicable, cooperative: He seems a good-natured fellow, but not too bright.
gore v. pierce, stab, poke, horn, penetrate, puncture, spear, gouge, spit, stick, impale, disembowel: The matador, severely gored by the bull, was carried away.
gossip n. 1 chat, conversation, talk, chit-chat, small talk, palaver; tittle-tattle, prattle; Scots clishmaclaver; gup; Colloq Brit natter, chin-wag: I was just having a little gossip with my neighbour. 2 rumour, scandal, hearsay, information, on dit, word, Colloq grapevine, (inside) info, tittle-tattle, Slang dope, Chiefly US scuttlebutt, US and Canadian poop: The latest gossip is that she left him for another woman. 3 rumour-mill, rumour-monger, scandalmonger, gossip-monger, newsmonger, busybody, tattle-tale, quidnunc, blabber, blatherskite, tell-tale, talebearer, flibbertigibbet, Colloq big-mouth, chatterbox, blabbermouth, Nosy Parker: That old gossip will tell everybody your business. --v. 4 Sometimes, gossip about. bruit, tattle, rumour, whisper, blether or US blather, gabble, Colloq blab, Brit natter, Slang jaw: I was just gossiping to my friend about your new job.
government n. 1 rule, command, authority, regulation, control, management, direction, administration, sway, superintendence, supervision, oversight, guidance, domination: His government of the island has led to disorder. 2 administration, ministry, regime: The government intends to ban smoking in public places.
gracious adj. kind, courteous, polite, well-mannered, kindly, benevolent, beneficent, indulgent, kind-hearted, warm-hearted, cordial, warm, friendly, sociable, good-natured, amiable, affable, benign, accommodating, obliging, agreeable, considerate: It was gracious of you to grant me an audience.
graduate n. 1 bachelor, postgraduate, US alumnus (pl. alumni) or alumna (pl. alumnae): Even university graduates found it difficult to get a job. --v. 2 gradate, mark, calibrate, grade, scale: This thermometer is graduated in increments of one tenth of a degree.
grand adj. 1 large, great, huge, immense, enormous, impressive, imposing, splendid, fine, majestic, stately, lofty, monumental, lavish, magnificent, opulent, luxurious, palatial, sumptuous, Colloq posh: We were led into a grand hall where thousands awaited the emperor. 2 dignified, distinguished, august, respected, eminent, pre-eminent, outstanding, celebrated, illustrious, renowned, notable, legendary, exalted, revered, venerable, immortal: He is regarded as the grand old man of chemistry. 3 flamboyant, overdone, histrionic, ostentatious, pretentious, grandiose, lordly: The abysmal performance was punctuated by the actors' grand strutting and gesturing. 4 complete, total, sum, comprehensive, (all-)inclusive; bottom-line: The grand total of expenses came to 12,467. 5 marvellous, wonderful, outstanding, first-class, first-rate, splendid, excellent, superb, admirable, Colloq great, marvy, smashing, terrific, fantastic, fabulous, fantabulous, super: Isn't it grand that Freda will be able to go! 6 principal, chief, main, head, leading, foremost, highest: The grand vizier was second only to the caliph.
granular adj. grainy, granulated, particulate, comminuted, gravelly, sandy, gritty: The sauce was somewhat granular and tasted too strongly of nutmeg.
grasp v. 1 grip, grab, seize, clasp, clutch, snatch, hold, take or lay or catch hold of, Colloq nab: I grasped the rope and was pulled to safety. 2 understand, comprehend, appreciate, catch (on), get, get the drift or point of, follow, see, realize, apprehend, learn, Colloq make head(s) or tail(s) of, Slang dig: I am trying to grasp the full import of what you are saying. --n. 3 hold, grip, clutches, clasp, embrace, lock: He loosened his grasp on my throat and I could breathe again. 4 possession, control, power, mastery, sovereignty, suzerainty, hold: By then, even the outer islands had fallen within his grasp. 5 understanding, comprehension, apprehension, awareness, perception, sense: He has a poor grasp of the basics of the subject.
grateful adj. thankful, appreciative: I am grateful for any help I can get.
gratitude n. thankfulness, appreciation, gratefulness; thanks, return, compensation, thanksgiving: Here is a box of chocolates in gratitude for looking after my cat.
graveyard n. burial-ground, churchyard, cemetery, God's acre, necropolis, potter's field, W US Boot Hill, Rare Golgotha, Slang bone-yard: Uncle Valentine is buried in the graveyard on the hill.
greed n. 1 greediness, avarice, avariciousness, covetousness, acquisitiveness, cupidity, avidity, craving, yearning: Greed accounts for most of man's dishonesty. 2 meanness, stinginess, miserliness, selfishness, niggardliness, penuriousness, parsimony, close-fistedness, penny-pinching, tight-fistedness: From a life of greed he had accumulated enormous wealth. 3 gluttony, voraciousness, edacity, esurience, voracity, overeating, gormandizing, ravenousness, insatiableness: Obesity owes more to greed than to glandular disorder.
greet v. 1 welcome, receive, usher in, meet: We were greeted warmly by the family. 2 hail, accost, address, salute: People greeted him in the street with a wave and a smile.
grievance adj. 1 wrong, ill, injustice, disservice, unfairness, injury, damage, harm, outrage, affront, indignity, hardship, calamity: I had to listen to details of every grievance she had ever suffered. 2 complaint, objection, charge, plaint, allegation, grudge, Colloq gripe, bone to pick, Brit crow to pluck, Slang beef: Please register all your grievances at the office next door.
grime n. dirt, filth, soot, mud, muck, slime, scum: The lad began to rub the grime from the old oil lamp.
grisly adj. gruesome, gory, abhorrent, abominable, awful, appalling, hideous, shocking, nasty, dreadful, repulsive, repellent, repugnant, disgusting, sickening, nauseating, horrific, horrid, horrendous, horrifying, terrible, terrifying, terrific: A grisly scene greeted the soldiers who liberated the concentration camp.
groggy adj. unsteady, shaky, wobbly, weak-kneed, weak, staggering, stupefied, dazed, stunned, reeling, punch-drunk, numb, numbed, benumbed, faint, in a trance or stupor, muddled, addled, confused, bewildered, confounded, puzzled, baffled, befuddled, Colloq dopey, punchy, woozy, Brit muzzy: I was still groggy from the blow on the head.
gross adj. 1 fat, obese, corpulent, overweight, big, large, bulky, great, heavy, ponderous, massive, cumbersome, unwieldy: The gross detective eased his bulk onto a tiny chair. 2 total, aggregate, entire, pre-tax, (all-)inclusive, overall, whole: The gross profit was up by 15 per cent this year. 3 coarse, vulgar, crude, unsophisticated, uncultured, uncultivated, earthy, crass, indelicate, indecent, inappropriate, unseemly, improper, unrefined, bawdy, ribald, Rabelaisian, raw, rude, offensive, obscene, lewd, dirty, smutty, pornographic, filthy: That was too gross a story for mixed company. 4 outrageous, flagrant, obvious, plain, glaring, shameful, blatant, monstrous, heinous, manifest, evident: Her conviction was a gross miscarriage of justice. 5 disgusting, repulsive, repellent, revolting, nauseating: His table manners are truly gross. --v. 6 earn, bring or take in, make: We grossed over a million but netted only 50,000 after expenses. --n. 7 (overall) total, take, intake, takings, receipts, gate: As I said, the gross was over a million.
groundwork n. basis, spadework, preparation(s), base, foundation, underpinning(s), cornerstone: The report provided the groundwork for the research.
growth n. 1 development, evolution, evolvement, cultivation, nurturing, increase, expansion, broadening, extension, enlargement, spread, proliferation, flowering: The growth of education was a slow and painful process. 2 vegetation, crop: The area is covered with a dense growth of timber. 3 advance, advancement, success, improvement, expansion, rise, progress: The growth of the economy has slowed down in the last quarter. 4 wen, excrescence, wart, lump, tumour, swelling, intumescence: He developed an ugly growth on his nose.
guarantee n. 1 guaranty, warranty, assurance, pledge, bond, obligation, promise; word (of honour), oath, undertaking: The guarantee expires one month from the sell-by date. Have I your guarantee that this battery will last a year? --v. 2 guaranty, warranty, assure, ensure, pledge, promise, undertake, stand behind, vouch for, certify, make sure or certain, swear to, attest to: The manufacturer guarantees every car for three years or 50,000 miles.
guerrilla n. guerilla, partisan or partizan, resistance or freedom or underground fighter, irregular; insurgent, saboteur, terrorist; US history Jayhawker, French history Maquis: The guerrillas continue to attack the government's supply convoys.
guide v. 1 lead, show or lead the way, conduct, shepherd, direct, usher, steer, orient or Brit orientate: She guided me to the proper office. What will guide your judgement in dealing with this situation? 2 steer, pilot, manoeuvre, navigate, direct: He carefully guided the boat between the shoals. 3 counsel, advise, influence, sway; supervise, oversee, handle, manage, superintend, direct, control, regulate, govern: Mr Thrall guided my artistic development from the beginning. 4 instruct, teach, tutor, train: From early youth we were guided by the elders of the community. --n. 5 leader, conductor, director, cicerone, chaperon, mentor, counsel, counsellor, adviser or advisor, guru, master: He served as my guide through the financial jungle. Let your conscience be your guide. 6 model, criterion, exemplar, standard, ideal, example, inspiration: She looked upon the life of Mother Theresa as a guide. 7 beacon, light, signal, guiding light, landmark, lodestar, sign, marker: The Southern Cross was our constant guide sailing round the Horn. 8 handbook, manual, enchiridion, vade-mecum, guidebook, Baedeker: Can you recommend a good guide to English usage?
gulf n. 1 bay, bight, cove, inlet, sound, loch or sea loch, firth or frith, fiord or fjord, Irish lough, Brit creek: We sailed into the gulf to shelter from the wind behind the cliffs. 2 chasm, deep, depth, abyss, abysm, void, space, opening, rift, breach, gap, separation, rift, split: After the divorce, the gulf between us widened even further.
gumption n. 1 resourcefulness, shrewdness, cleverness, (mother) wit, (common) sense, astuteness, judgement, Colloq horse sense, brains, Slang Brit nous: It takes a lot of gumption to run a good cattle auction. 2 backbone, grit, pluck, mettle, enterprise, initiative, courage, spirit, gameness, nerve, daring, vigour, energy, boldness, audacity, stamina, Colloq spunk, guts, get-up-and-go, US moxie, Slang Brit bottle, Taboo slang balls: He hasn't the gumption to go into business for himself.
gust n. 1 puff, blow, wind, breeze, blast: A gust of wind blew my hat off. --v. 2 puff, blow, blast, surge, increase: The wind gusted up to gale force overnight.
guy n. 1 man, lad, youth, boy, fellow, person, Colloq chap, geezer, Brit bloke, Slang gink, cat, customer, US dude, Old-fashioned gazabo or gazebo: Clarence is a pretty nice guy. --v. 2 mock, ridicule, make fun of, caricature, satirize, poke fun at, lampoon, Colloq rib, take off, Brit send up: We put on a show at school in which we guyed the teachers.
habitat n. abode, home, haunt, domain, range, territory, bailiwick, realm, terrain, element, environment, surroundings, Colloq stamping-ground: The winter habitat of the monarch butterfly is in northern Mexico. Curtis doesn't function well outside his natural habitat.
hack n. 1 drudge, penny-a-liner, scribbler, Grub Street writer: We made a mistake hiring that hack as a feature writer. 2 plodder, drudge, toiler, menial, flunkey, lackey, slave, Brit fag, Slang grind, Brit swot: Fergus gets good grades because he's such a hack. 3 saddle-horse, riding-horse, hackney, Archaic palfrey: The hack was a fine bay mare. --adj. 4 hackneyed, trite, banal, overdone, commonplace, routine, stereotyped, stock, tired, tedious, mediocre, overworked, stale, unoriginal, run-of-the-mill, humdrum, moth-eaten, mouldy, Colloq old hat: Haverstock keeps publishing hack romances.
hail v. 1 greet, accost, address, signal, call: Robert hailed us from across the road. 2 cheer, salute, applaud, approve, glorify, praise, laud, honour, acclaim, congratulate, felicitate, acknowledge: He was hailed by all for his charitable work.
hairless adj. bald, bald-headed, bald-pated, glabrous, calvous: She finds hairless men rather sexy.
half-hearted adj. indifferent, uncaring, unconcerned, lukewarm, uninterested, dispassionate, cool, unenthusiastic, half-baked, nonchalant, phlegmatic, lackadaisical, insouciant: The council has made only a half-hearted effort to solve the problem.
hallmark n. 1 authentication, verification, seal or stamp (of authenticity or approval), mark, device, sign, symbol; plate-mark; assay-mark: From this hallmark we know when and where the piece was made, by whom, and its degree of purity. Surprise endings are the hallmark of O. Henry's short stories. 2 feature, stamp, mark, earmark, trade mark, characteristic, identification: From his hallmark, a tiny axe, you can tell that the painting is a genuine Fellworthy.
halt n. 1 stop, standstill, end, termination, close, stoppage, cessation: We must call a halt to absenteeism in the factory. --v. 2 stop, quit, end, terminate, cease, check, curb, stem, discontinue, desist, bring or come or draw to an end or close, put an end or stop to, conclude, shut or close down or up: We halted when we came to the river. The guerrillas halted the armoured column at the pass.
hand n. 1 Slang mitt, paw, US lunch-hook: Keep your hands off me, you oaf! 2 help, aid, assistance, helping hand, relief, boost; leg up: Please give me a hand with this trunk. 3 influence, agency, participation, involvement, part, share: Did you have a hand in my getting the appointment? 4 (manual) labourer, worker, workman, man, help, employee: It's getting harder to find hands for the farm. 5 pointer, indicator, index: The minute hand covers the hour hand at noon and midnight. 6 (round of) applause, ovation, clap: Give the lad a hand for trying. 7 handwriting, penmanship, script; calligraphy: The writing was in a hand that she could not recognize. 8 Often, hands. control, hold, grasp, possession, custody, clutches, keeping, power, disposal, jurisdiction, authority, supervision, management, guardianship, care: At last, the government is in the hands of the people. 9 at hand. nearby, close, near, close by, handy, (readily) available, to or on hand, at one's fingertips, convenient, within (arm's) reach, accessible, present; approaching, imminent, around the corner: He always kept a pistol at hand. The Day of Judgement is at hand. 10 hand in glove. hand in hand, in league, together, in collusion, collusively, connivingly, conspiringly, intimately, closely, jointly, Colloq in cahoots: An informer is working hand in glove with the police. 11 hand in hand. together, side by side, hand in glove: They walked hand in hand down the road. 12 hand-over-fist. quickly, speedily, rapidly, swiftly, steadily, like mad: He makes money hand-over-fist in the stock market. 13 hands down. easily, readily, effortlessly: He can win the marathon hands down. --v. 14 give, pass, deliver, present to or with: Please hand me the hammer. 15 hand down or on or over. a bequeath, will, pass on; transfer, turn over: The farm has been handed down from father to son for seven generations. b See 18 (a), below. 16 hand in. submit, give in, tender, proffer, offer: I handed in my resignation. 17 hand out. distribute, disseminate, pass out or round or around, give out, deal (out), mete or dole out, dispense; disburse: She was handing out leaflets to passers-by. 18 hand over. a deliver, submit, yield, give up, surrender, turn over; transfer: The man produced a gun and told the cashier to hand over the money. b See 15 (a), above.
handily adv. 1 readily, easily, effortlessly, without strain, comfortably, with both hands tied (behind one's back): Donald handily won the first prize in the poetry competition. 2 skilfully, capably, deftly, cleverly, dexterously, adroitly, expertly, proficiently, masterfully: I could never do that intricate work as handily as she.
hang v. 1 suspend, depend, dangle; be poised or suspended, hover, swing: Hang the lantern from this branch. The laundry was hanging on the line. 2 gibbet, send to the gallows, lynch, execute, kill, Colloq string up, stretch: They hanged two murderers this morning. 3 drape, fall: The skirt isn't hanging straight. 4 hang about or around. a loiter, wait, linger, dally, idle, tarry , Colloq hang out: He hangs about after school every day, waiting for Susan. b Also, hang about or around (with). frequent, haunt, visit, spend time at; associate with, socialize with, hobnob with, rub elbows with, consort with, fraternize with, mix or mingle with, Colloq hang out (with): He hangs about the Golden Crown. I saw him hanging around with some pretty unsavoury characters. 5 hang back (from). be reluctant, recoil (from), shrink (from), hesitate, falter, stay away (from): Move to the front of the queue and don't hang back. 6 hang fire. be delayed, remain unsettled or unfinished, be in suspense or abeyance; stall, hold up, delay: The decision will hang fire till after the election. 7 hang on. a Also, hang on to. hold on (to), cling (to), clutch, grip, grasp, grab: Hang on to me when we're crossing the street. b wait, stay, stop: Hang on a minute - what did you call me? c wait, persist, remain, carry on, persevere, go on, hold out, endure, hold the phone, Colloq US hang in there: Hang on a minute, I have to put down the phone to get a pencil. d Also, hang on to or upon. listen carefully or attentively, give one's undivided attention, be rapt: She hung on every word the guru uttered. e depend or rely (on), be dependent or contingent (on), be subject (to), be conditioned or conditional (on): The entire project now hangs on their approval of the budget. 8 hang one's head. be ashamed or humiliated or abashed or humbled or embarrassed: She hung her head as the store detective confronted her with the stolen goods. 9 hang out. See 5 (a), above. 10 hang over. be put off or postponed or delayed: We must first deal with matters hanging over from our last meeting. 11 hang together. a unite, be united, be as one, stick together, join forces, cooperate, act in concert or harmony: We must hang together or we shall hang separately. b make sense, be logical, be consistent, correspond, match (up), cohere, be coherent: The statements issued yesterday and today just don't hang together. 12 hang up. break the connection, disconnect, cut off, put down the receiver: Whenever a salesman phones, I simply hang up.
hanky-panky n. mischief, trickery, double-dealing, legerdemain, deception, duplicity, chicanery, naughtiness, foolishness, tomfoolery, Colloq funny business, jiggery-pokery, monkey business, shenanigans, goings-on, antics: He'd best not try any of his hanky-panky with the tax inspector.
happily adv. 1 fortunately, luckily, propitiously, providentially, opportunely: Happily, she made a full recovery and was soon back at work. 2 joyfully, joyously, delightedly, gleefully, cheerily, cheerfully, gaily, merrily, blithely; enthusiastically, heartily: She waved happily as they drove off. 3 gladly, with pleasure, agreeably, contentedly, willingly, peaceably: And they both lived happily ever after.
harass v. badger, harry, hector, trouble, torment, bother, exasperate, hound, plague, persecute, vex, annoy, irritate, pester, worry, beset, bait, nag, pick on or at, tease, torture, Brit chivvvy or chivy or chevy: The police harass me by turning up at all hours for 'help with their inquiries'.
harden v. 1 set, solidify, stiffen, freeze: The concrete will harden overnight. 2 intensify, strengthen, brace, fortify, toughen, reinforce, stiffen: The opposition have hardened their stand against privatization.
hardy adj. 1 robust, sturdy, strong, rugged, tough, durable, sound, stalwart, stout, vigorous, able-bodied, red-blooded, fit, hale, healthy, Colloq husky: The pioneers were hardy souls. 2 bold, courageous, daring, valorous, valiant, brave, manly, intrepid, fearless, heroic, plucky: He was among the hardy sailors who went with Magellan.
harmless adj. benign, innocuous, inoffensive, gentle, mild, innocent, safe; non-toxic, non-poisonous, non-venomous: Pay no attention to such harmless gossip. It is impossible to identify harmless snakes by sight.
harsh adj. 1 rough, coarse, bristly, scratchy, hairy, crude; hoarse, grating, raucous, rasping, husky, guttural; clashing, inharmonious or unharmonious, discordant, atonal, dissonant, cacophonous, strident, shrill, grinding, sour; bitter, sour, acrid: He found harsh the sights, sounds, tastes, and smells of the Casbah. 2 stern, austere, bleak, dour, unkind, unfeeling, comfortless, uncompassionate, unfriendly, grim, hard, Spartan, stringent, over-exacting, Draconian, tyrannical, stark, severe, cruel, abusive, punishing, punitive, brutal, brutish, inhuman, merciless, ruthless, pitiless: Simon is a very harsh taskmaster. 3 unpleasant, disagreeable, impolite, discourteous, uncivil, rude, nasty, curt, abrupt, brusque, bluff, gruff, curmudgeonly, choleric, splenetic, surly, sullen, irascible, short-tempered, petulant, peevish, waspish, grouchy, bilious, cross, acrimonious, sarcastic, acerbic: Why is Maria so harsh to Alan?
hasten v. 1 hurry, rush, make haste, fly, run, sprint, race, bolt, dash, scurry, scamper, scuttle, speed: He hastened forward to greet her. 2 hurry (up), speed (up), dispatch or despatch, send, move, quicken, accelerate, expedite, rush, impel, urge: Is there any way to hasten delivery of the mail?
hate v. 1 loathe, abhor, detest, have an aversion to, be averse to, abominate, dislike, execrate, despise, scorn: I hate the smell of petrol, it really turns my stomach. 2 be loath, be reluctant or unwilling or disinclined; resist, shrink or flinch from, dislike, shrink from: I hate to tell you what I really think. She hated revealing Bill's affair to his wife. --n. 3 hatred, abhorrence, loathing, odium, animosity, animus, antipathy, aversion, hostility, antagonism, malice, enmity, detestation: He didn't believe he could feel so much hate for one person.
haunt v. 1 visit, frequent, hang about or around, spend time at, US habituate: She haunts the yacht club, waiting for her ship to come in. 2 beset, obsess, plague, torment, trouble, possess, prey on: He is haunted by the fear that she told the police everything. --n. 3 gathering-place, meeting-place, stamping-ground, Colloq hang-out: She returned to Abergavenny to visit the haunts of her youth.
hazardous adj. unsafe, risky, fraught with danger, questionable, shaky, dangerous, precarious, uncertain, unpredictable, parlous, ticklish, tricky, Colloq chiefly Brit dicey, dicky or dickey, Slang hairy: It took three months to make the hazardous overland journey in those days.
headway n. 1 progress, forward motion, improvement: Headway against that current was almost impossible. Any headway to report? 2 make headway. advance, progress, move forward, go, gain (ground), get or go ahead, proceed, get going: I tried to persuade her but haven't made much headway.
heap n. 1 collection, pile, mound, stack, accumulation, aggregation, agglomeration, congeries, conglomeration, hoard, mass, store, mountain, stockpile, supply, Colloq US and Canadian stash: Donors contributed a huge heap of clothing for the sale. 2 Often, heaps. abundance, plethora, superabundance, lot(s), plenty, great deal, scores, peck, sea, Colloq lashings, load(s), piles, ton(s), raft(s), pots, oodles, scad(s), US and Canadian slew: It was served with heaps of chocolate sauce. Heaps of people bought your record. You're in for a heap of trouble. --v. 3 collect, gather, harvest, reap, glean, garner, pile (up), accumulate, cumulate, aggregate, amass, stockpile, save (up), bank, lay by or up or in, set aside, Colloq stash (away): In autumn, squirrels heap up their supplies of nuts for the winter. 4 shower, load, bestow, give, provide, burden: The grateful prince heaped us with treasure beyond imagination.
heartfelt adj. sincere, honest, genuine, unfeigned, earnest, serious, wholehearted, deep, profound, dedicated, devoted, ardent, committed, fervent, fervid, hearty, passionate: It is my heartfelt wish that you should succeed.
hearty adj. 1 genial, warm, kind-hearted, affectionate, amiable, amicable, friendly, affable, cordial, open, convivial: I was greeted by a hearty welcome when I returned. 2 genuine, unfeigned, authentic, sincere, heartfelt, warm, wholehearted, honest, earnest, devout, stalwart, stout: Please give Desmond my hearty congratulations. 3 enthusiastic, vigorous, energetic, eager, zealous, exuberant, robust, active, animated, strong: They are hearty supporters of our cause. 4 abundant, ample, substantial, solid, sizeable, satisfying, square; nourishing, invigorating, strengthening: On Sundays, we had a hearty meal at midday when we could afford it. 5 healthy, hale, vigorous, robust, strong, sound: Well, Eric, now that you're over your malaria you appear to be quite hearty.
heave v. 1 raise, lift, hoist, haul, pull, draw, tug; move: We heaved in the anchor and made sail. 2 throw, toss, hurl, fling, cast, sling, pitch, let fly, send, launch, Colloq peg, chuck: When he heaved the sword into the lake a hand rose from the waters and caught it. 3 breathe, utter, sigh, groan, moan, gasp: We heaved a sigh of relief when we heard that they had been found. 4 gag, retch, vomit, be sick, regurgitate, disgorge, Colloq throw up, Slang puke, lose one's lunch, return one's dinner, US upchuck, spiff one's biscuits: The smell of petrol always makes me heave.
heavy-handed adj. 1 awkward, clumsy, inept, maladroit, unskilful, ungraceful, graceless, bungling: She made a heavy-handed attempt to apologize. 2 autocratic, imperious, magisterial, overbearing, despotic, dictatorial, tyrannical, oppressive, domineering, iron-handed, harsh, severe: For more than 30 years he exercised heavy-handed control over the country.
heedless adj. inattentive, uncaring, unmindful, neglectful, unobservant, regardless; oblivious, deaf, blind: Heedless of tradition, they replaced the older buildings with council housing.
height n. 1 altitude, elevation, level; tallness: At what height is the second camp on Mount Everest? The height of the skyscrapers impressed me. 2 acme, crest, pinnacle, top, zenith, apogee, peak, apex, maximum, high point, summit, climax, culmination, extreme: Popularity of that style reached its height in the 1930s. His remark reflected the height of arrogance. 3 Often, heights. elevation, mound, hill, eminence, prominence, mountain, peak, crag, summit; tor, cliff, bluff, promontory, escarpment, scarp, headland, No. Brit fell: As we gazed down from the heights, the villages seemed tiny.
helm n. 1 tiller, wheel, rudder, steering gear or apparatus: I had to put the helm over hard to avoid hitting the pier. 2 directorship, presidency, chairmanship, leadership, control, rule, command, Colloq driver's seat, saddle: Arthur remained at the helm of the company for 40 years.
helpless adj. 1 dependent, vulnerable, weak, helpless, feeble, infirm, lame, crippled, disabled: The disease has left him completely helpless. 2 confused, baffled, mystified, bewildered, perplexed, at sea, confounded, muddled, nonplussed: I am completely helpless when it comes to balancing my accounts. 3 weakened, weak, debilitated, faint, enfeebled, feeble, worn out, spent, exhausted, prostrate, enervated: All of us were simply helpless from laughing so much. 4 worthless, incapable, incompetent, useless, unavailing, inefficient, inept, unfit, unqualified: Dali was said to be helpless without Gala to manage his affairs.
henchman n. (fellow-) mobster or gangster or hoodlum, gangster, bodyguard, myrmidon, right-hand man, associate, attendant, follower, supporter, confidant, crony, Colloq sidekick, hooligan, Brit minder, US buddy, cohort; Slang heavy, US torpedo, gunsel, goon: Mr Big strutted in with his henchmen and wrecked the place.
heretical adj. unorthodox, heterodox, impious, freethinking, heretic, apostate or apostatical, iconoclastic, schismatic, sceptic, agnostic, atheist(ic), idolatrous, heathen, pagan, infidel, godless: The purpose of the Inquisition was to discover and suppress heretical views.
hero n. 1 heroine, champion, exemplar, star, superstar, idol, ideal, man of the hour, luminary, notable, celebrity; knight, paladin, warrior: She was a hero to every aspiring woman lawyer. She expects a hero in shining armour on a white horse to sweep her off her feet. 2 protagonist, (male) lead or star, leading man or actor, principal: Grard Depardieu plays the hero in this lavishly produced film.
hesitate v. 1 delay, hold or hang back, pause, dilly-dally, wait, temporize, think twice, balk, boggle at, shrink from, demur, scruple, Brit haver, jib, Colloq stall: He who hesitates is lost. 2 fumble, equivocate, tergiversate, fluctuate, alternate, waver, dither, vacillate, shilly-shally: He hesitated between the doors - did this one conceal the lady or the tiger? 3 stammer, stutter, falter, sputter, splutter, stumble, hem and haw: She hesitated throughout the speech purely from stage fright.
hideaway n. refuge, retreat, sanctuary, hide-out, hiding-place, lair, (safe) haven, Colloq hole, Brit hidey-hole or hidy-hole: My brother and I would crawl into our hideaway and pretend we were being held prisoner by pirates.
highbrow n. 1 scholar, intellectual, savant, sage, mastermind, genius; aesthete, connoisseur, Colloq egghead, brain: Many who pretend to deride highbrows secretly envy them. --adj. 2 scholarly, intellectual, learned, erudite, deep, bookish, cultured, sophisticated, cultivated, aesthetic, Colloq brainy: Books on philosophy are too highbrow for the market we cater to.
hilarity n. laughter, gaiety, joviality, jollity, merriment, mirth, exuberance, glee, boisterousness, cheerfulness, joyfulness, jubilation, elation, revelry, conviviality, high spirits, vivacity, exhilaration: Thurgood did not join in the hilarity of his retirement party.
hint n. 1 suggestion, clue, implication, inkling, indication, tip, tip-off, intimation, allusion, innuendo, insinuation; pointer, help, advice: The quiz-master gave me a hint and I got the answer at once. 2 trace, suggestion, touch, taste, breath, dash, soupon, whiff, undertone, tinge, whisper: Which government has ever served without any hint of scandal? --v. 3 suggest, imply, indicate, tip (off), intimate, allude, insinuate, mention, clue, cue, signal, refer, advert: She hinted that I might appeal to her sister.
hiss n. 1 hissing, sibilance: Serpents and geese make a sound like a hiss. 2 catcall, jeer, boo, hoot, Slang raspberry, US Bronx cheer: The villain was greeted by hisses from the audience. --v. 3 boo, hoot, jeer, deride, mock, taunt, decry, disparage: The workers hissed and booed the speaker.
hit v. 1 strike, cuff, smack, knock, whack, bash, bang, thump, thwack, punch, buffet, slap, swat, bludgeon, club, smite; spank, thrash, beat, pummel, batter, flog, scourge, birch, cane, lash, belabour, flagellate, whip, horsewhip, cudgel, Archaic fustigate; Colloq belt, wallop, clobber, clout, sock, clip, crown, bop, conk, paste, lambaste, zap: She hit him on the jaw and he went down. 2 strike, bat, swat, knock, drive, propel: He hit the ball over the heads of the fielders. 3 strike, collide or impact with, run or smash or crash into, bump or bang into: The car went off the road and hit a tree. 4 affect, touch, stir, move, wound, hurt, strike or hit home, make or leave an impression or a mark on, (make an) impact (on): The new taxes hit the wealthy more than the poor. 5 dawn on, enter one's mind, occur to, strike: It finally hit Graham that he had been insulted. 6 reach, attain, arrive at, gain, achieve: Those who have hit eighty know the meaning of old age. She hit the jackpot this week. 7 experience, encounter, meet (with): It was at that point that we hit a snag in the negotiations. 8 Also, hit up. importune, beseech, petition, beg, implore, entreat, ask for: As usual, Guthrie hit me for a loan as soon as we met. 9 hit on or upon. a come or happen or chance or light on or upon, discover, find, uncover, unearth, stumble or blunder on or upon, arrive at: After years of experimentation, the Curies hit upon pitchblende as a source of radium. b devise, think of or up, invent, dream up, come up with, work out, see, perceive, detect, discern, find: I have hit upon a way to counteract the force of gravity. --n. 10 impact, collision; blow, punch, knock, strike, swat, shot, smack, bump, bang, Colloq whack, thwack, conk, bop, sock: The weakness of the hit caused only a slight dent in my car door. The boxer reeled after a hard hit to the midriff. 11 success, triumph, coup, winner, sensation, Colloq smash (hit), sell-out: After opening in the West End the musical became a hit on Broadway. 12 kick, jolt, thrill, Slang charge, US rush, bang: Give me a hit off that reefer.
hobble v. 1 limp, falter, dodder, totter, stagger, reel, weave, stumble, shuffle, shamble: I hobbled about on crutches for weeks. 2 shackle, fetter, restrain, restrict, hamper, hinder, impede, trammel: As hobbled horses do not stray, she tried to think of some way to hobble Clarence's errant ways. --n. 3 limp, shuffle, shamble, claudication, stagger: With the leg-irons on, I could walk only with a jerking hobble.
hoggish adj. piggish, greedy, avaricious, insatiable, gluttonous, voracious, edacious, acquisitive, possessive, self-seeking, selfish: Don't be so hoggish; share the cake with the others.
hold-up n. 1 (armed) robbery, Colloq stick-up, mugging, US heist: The robbers escaped with my gold watch in the hold-up. 2 delay, set-back, hitch, snag, interruption, lacuna, gap, hiatus, break, stoppage: The cause of the hold-up was an overturned van.
holocaust n. 1 conflagration, fire-storm, inferno, fire; destruction, devastation: When the volcano exploded, few escaped the holocaust. 2 genocide, mass murder, massacre, blood bath, pogrom, butchery, carnage, annihilation, extinction, extermination, eradication, elimination: Survivors of the Nazi holocaust hold periodic memorial services.
homeless adj. 1 dispossessed, outcast, exiled, vagabond, derelict, unsettled; unhoused: Their houses destroyed in the war, homeless people wandered everywhere. --n. 2 the homeless. knights of the road, vagrants, vagabonds, tramps, US bums, hoboes: There are not enough shelters for the homeless.
homicidal adj. murderous, lethal, deadly, death-dealing, mortal, blood-thirsty, sanguinary, ferocious, maniacal, berserk, amok or amuck, mad, insane: The doctors say he is homicidal and should be institutionalized.
honestly adv. 1 truthfully, honourably, creditably, decently, ethically, morally, uprightly, dependably, reliably, in good faith, justly, fairly, equitably, even-handedly, disinterestedly, objectively, impartially: In general, the police deal honestly with suspects. 2 candidly, frankly, openly, straightforwardly, forthrightly, sincerely, truly, ingenuously, unreservedly, above-board, unambiguously, unequivocally, plainly, simply, straight (out), to one's face, in plain words or English, bluntly: I tell you honestly that I have never heard of the man.
honour n. 1 integrity, honesty, fairness, justness, probity, uprightness, decency, goodness, righteousness, rectitude, justice, morality, principles, virtuousness, virtue: Doing the right thing is a matter of honour. 2 respect, esteem, reverence, veneration, approbation, deference, admiration, homage, regard, accolade, praise, kudos, fame, glory, celebrity, distinction, prestige, illustriousness: Great honour accompanies the award of a Nobel prize. 3 privilege, distinction, pleasure, joy, delight; credit, blessing: I have the honour to introduce tonight's speaker. It has been an honour to serve under you, Admiral. 4 virginity, chastity, virtue, purity, innocence: How did she manage to preserve her honour when fighting with the partisans? --v. 5 respect, esteem, revere, venerate, adulate, adore, worship, approve, prize, value, defer to, admire, pay homage to: Albert Schweitzer was much honoured in the latter part of his life. 6 praise, laud, glorify, celebrate, eulogize, salute, hail, acclaim, ennoble, dignify, exalt: We have come together to honour those who have died for their country. 7 keep, maintain, carry out, live up to, discharge, fulfil, observe, meet: She has done her best to honour her obligations. 8 pay, redeem, accept, clear, cash: The bank refused to honour his cheque because of 'insufficient funds'.
hook n. 1 hanger, peg, holder; fastener, catch, clasp, clip, pin: Hang your hat on that hook. I'm using a safety pin because the hook on my dress is gone. 2 snare, trap; fish-hook: What can we use as a hook to catch the fish? 3 by hook or by crook. somehow (or other), someway, come what may, by fair means or foul, (by) one way or another: I have to get out of this place by hook or by crook. 4 hook, line, and sinker. completely, entirely, all the way, through and through, thoroughly, entirely, totally, utterly, wholly: She actually fell for that old routine hook, line, and sinker. 5 off the hook. (set) free, (in the) clear, out of it; out of trouble, acquitted, exonerated, cleared, let off, vindicated, off: After paying them the extortion money, he still wasn't off the hook. --v. 6 catch, trap, entrap, snare, ensnare; grab, capture, collar, nab, seize; Chiefly US and Canadian snag, Colloq pinch: The petty crooks have been caught but we now want to hook the big fish himself. 7 steal, pilfer, filch, palm, shoplift, rob, Slang snitch, rip off, Euphemistic liberate, remove, borrow, appropriate, Brit nick, Chiefly Brit pinch: They used to hook sweets from Woolies'.
hopefully adv. 1 expectantly, optimistically, sanguinely, confidently: Jocelyn set off hopefully for the party. 2 with (any) luck, if things go well, all being well, it is hoped, expectedly: Hopefully, we shall arrive in time to catch the train.
horrible adj. 1 awful, horrendous, horrid, horrifying, horrific, terrible, terrifying, dreadful, abominable, abhorrent, appalling, frightening, frightful, ghastly, grim, grisly, ghoulish, gruesome, loathsome, hideous, repulsive, revolting, disgusting, sickening, nauseating, nauseous, harrowing, blood-curdling, macabre, unspeakable, shocking: The horrible sight of her father's mangled body haunted her for the rest of her days. 2 awful, nasty, unpleasant, disagreeable, horrid, terrible, dreadful, obnoxious, offensive, atrocious, monstrous, contemptible, detestable, despicable, Colloq Brit beastly: The food was perfectly horrible at our hotel. Take that horrible little dog away.
hospitable adj. 1 welcoming, gracious, courteous, genial, friendly, agreeable, amicable, cordial, warm, congenial, sociable, generous: It was most hospitable of you to invite me. 2 open-minded, receptive, amenable, approachable, tolerant: The director is always hospitable to suggestions for improving sales.
host n. army, swarm, crowd, horde, multitude, throng, mob, pack, herd, troop, legion, body, assembly, assemblage, drove: The rock group turned up with a host of followers, their so-called groupies.
hot adj. 1 fiery, white-hot, red-hot, piping hot, burning, blistering, scorching, roasting, frying, sizzling, searing, boiling, scalding, steaming, simmering, torrid, sweltering, sultry, heated: The hot, molten steel is cast into ingots here. During the day it is hot, but it cools down at night. 2 spicy, peppery, sharp, piquant, pungent, biting, acrid: She likes very hot food, with plenty of chilli. 3 intense, fervent, zealous, ardent, enthusiastic, passionate, fervid, vehement, excited, animated; impetuous, fiery, fierce, inflamed, sharp, violent: He had some hot words with the foreman who had dismissed him. 4 eager, keen, avid, anxious, burning; intense, fervent, zealous, ardent, enthusiastic, passionate, fervid, vehement, excited, animated, earnest, Slang US gung-ho: Desmond set out in hot pursuit of the thief. 5 recent, fresh, new, latest, brand-new: The hottest gossip is that she is marrying for the seventh time. 6 popular, sought-after, commercial, saleable, marketable: The publisher believes Zenobia's Memoirs to be the hot property of the year. 7 lustful, lecherous, libidinous, lubricous or lubricious, sensual, concupiscent, prurient, licentious, oversexed, sex-crazed, sex-mad, Archaic lickerish, horn-mad, Slang horny, Chiefly Brit randy, US hard up: They were really hot, not having been with anyone of the opposite sex for months. 8 intense, vivid, striking, bright, brilliant, dazzling, loud: That hot pink lipstick looks good with your suntan. 9 electrified, live, charged, powered: The hot wire connects to the other terminal - I think. 10 dangerous, precarious, risky, sensitive, delicate, unstable, touchy, unpredictable: The situation is getting a bit too hot to handle. --v. 11 hot up. intensify, build up, heighten, increase, worsen, warm up, heat up: The environment is hotting up as a political issue.
hotel n. hostelry, inn, lodging, caravanserai; motel, motor hotel, bed and breakfast or B & B, guest-house, pension, Australian and New Zealand pub, US tourist house: We are staying at a small hotel just outside of town.
hound v. bully, browbeat, persecute, nag, harass, annoy, pester, harry, badger: Although he was found innocent, his neighbours hounded him so much that he had to leave town.
hover v. 1 drift, poise, float, hang, be or hang suspended, hang in the air: The humming bird hovers over a flower, drinking its nectar. 2 linger, loiter, wait, hang about or around: The waiter's constant hovering about is making me nervous.
hub n. centre, focus, focal point, pivot, heart, core, nucleus, nave: This is the hub of the city, around which everything else moves.
hug v. 1 embrace, clasp, squeeze, cuddle, snuggle, Archaic or literary clip: They hugged each other warmly, then kissed goodbye. 2 follow closely, cling to, stay or keep near or close to: We hugged the ground as the bullets whizzed by overhead. --n. 3 embrace, clasp, squeeze, Colloq clinch: She saw me, ran over, and gave me a big hug.
hull n. 1 framework, skeleton, frame, structure, body: The hull of the ship completed, we added the superstructure. 2 shell, pod, case, husk, skin, peel, rind, US shuck: Squirrels carefully nibble through the hull of the nut to get at the kernel inside. --v. 3 shell, peel, skin, husk, US shuck: We hulled all the nuts and they are now ready for the fruit cake.
humanity n. 1 human race, people, society, humankind, Homo sapiens; the public, the masses, community; Possibly offensive man, mankind: From what we are told, humanity took millions of years to evolve. 2 humanness, human nature, mortality: On his first voyage to Mars, Kollworth began to doubt his own humanity. 3 kindness, kindliness, kind-heartedness, consideration, helpfulness, charitableness, open-heartedness, warm-heartedness, good will, benevolence, compassion, mercifulness, mercy, benignity, tenderness, warmth, gentleness, leniency or lenience or lenity, beneficence, generosity, unselfishness, magnanimity, understanding, sympathy, sensitivity: It was owing to the humanity of our neighbours that we survived the bombing.
humiliation n. disgrace, shame, mortification, dishonour, ignominy, indignity, discredit, loss of face, obloquy, abasement, depreciation, detraction, degradation, derogation, belittlement, disparagement, shaming, embarrassment, humbling: He had to suffer the humiliation of being drummed out of the corps.
hump n. 1 bulge, lump, bump, protuberance, protrusion, projection, knob, node, mass, hunch, enlargement, swelling, growth, excrescence, tumefaction, tumescence; mound, barrow, tell, hummock, hillock, tumulus, Brit dialect tump: Digging into the hump near the trees, we uncovered an ancient burial-ground. --v. 2 hunch, arch, curve, crook, bend: Sulking in the corner, he humped his back and refused to speak to anyone. 3 drag, lug, haul, carry, heave: She had to hump two heavy suitcases all the way from the railway station.
hunt v. 1 chase, pursue, dog, hound, stalk, trail, track (down), trace; course: The jewel thieves were hunted across three continents. 2 Also, hunt for or up or out or through. seek (out), search (for), go in search of or for, look (high and low) for, quest after, go in quest of, scour, ransack, investigate, pry into, go over or through with a fine-tooth comb, examine, explore, Colloq US check out: Detectives hunted the carpet for clues. She is hunting a job in publishing. I have hunted for the ring but cannot find it. Can you hunt up someone to fill the vacancy? Hunt through your pockets again for the key. --n. 3 chase, pursuit, tracking (down), stalking, hunting; course: The ten-year hunt for the thieves continues. 4 search, quest: My hunt ended when I found the ring.
hurricane n. cyclone, tornado, typhoon, whirlwind, twister, wind-storm, storm, gale, blow: The 1985 hurricane destroyed millions of trees.
hurtful adj. 1 harmful, injurious, detrimental, pernicious, prejudicial, disadvantageous, damaging, deleterious, destructive, noisome, noxious, baneful, mischievous: Efficient government is advantageous to many and hurtful to none. 2 nasty, cruel, cutting, malicious, mean, unkind, wounding, spiteful: He made some hurtful accusations about the librarian's efficiency.
husky adj. 1 brawny, strapping, sturdy, burly, well-built, robust, hefty, rugged, powerful, strong, stout, thickset, muscular, tough, Colloq beefy: Two husky men arrived to move the piano. 2 hoarse, gruff, dry, harsh, rasping, rough, raucous: She has a deep, husky voice I would recognize anywhere.
hygienic adj. clean, sanitary, sterile, disinfected, germ-free, aseptic, pure: It is essential that hygienic surroundings be maintained in hospitals.
hypocritical adj. deceptive, deceitful, deceiving, insincere, dissembling, feigning, dissimulating, double-dealing, false, fake, faking, two-faced, pretending, lying, mendacious, Pharisaic(al), sanctimonious, dishonest, underhand, treacherous, perfidious, untrustworthy: He regards the Victorians as nothing but smug prudes and hypocritical moralizers.
icing n. 1 frosting, glaze, coating: Our favourite treat was chocolate cake with chocolate icing. 2 bonus, (fringe) benefit, reward, (extra) added attraction, extra, reward, dividend: He clinched a seventh victory with his partner, putting the icing on the cake of their shared world championship.
idealistic adj. visionary, romantic, romanticized, optimistic, starry-eyed, quixotic, Panglossian, impractical, unrealistic: He is idealistic enough to believe that people are basically good.
identification n. 1 connection, recognition, distinguishing, indication, perception, detection, selection, naming, labelling, pinpointing, designation, characterization, denomination; authentication, verification, establishment, certification, substantiation, corroboration, Colloq fingering: Her identification of him as her attacker is not sufficient to convict him. 2 classification, classifying, cataloguing, categorization, categorizing, pigeon-holing: How much time is needed for the identification of the minerals in the moon rocks? 3 ID, ID card, identity card, badge, credentials: Only up-to-date identification will be accepted as proof of ownership. 4 connection, association, affiliation, empathy, sympathy, rapport, relationship: His continued identification with comic-book heroes is immature.
idiom n. 1 language, tongue, speech, vernacular, dialect, argot, patois, jargon, cant, idiolect, parlance, faon de parler, phraseology: The play is written in a rather old-fashioned idiom. 2 expression, (set) phrase, phrasing, locution, clich: The term red herring , an idiom meaning 'false trail', is used of something which is neither red nor a herring.
idly adv. 1 unproductively, lazily, indolently: She wanders about the shops, idly whiling away the hours. 2 offhandedly, unconsciously, mechanically, thoughtlessly, unthinkingly, obliviously, insensibly, indifferently: He sat quietly, his fingers idly drumming on the tabletop.
ignorance n. unfamiliarity, unawareness, unconsciousness, benightedness, unenlightenment, inexperience, greenness: Ignorance of the law is no excuse. Mistakes are often caused by ignorance rather than stupidity.
ill-advised adj. 1 inadvisable, ill-judged, injudicious, ill-considered, misguided, unwise, imprudent, inappropriate, unpropitious, inexpedient, impolitic, wrong-headed, thoughtless; indiscreet: It would be ill-advised to sell your house at this time. 2 hasty, rash, reckless, impetuous, rash, foolhardy, incautious, short-sighted, improvident: Driving without a seat belt is ill-advised.
ill-founded adj. groundless, baseless, without foundation, unsupported, unsubstantiated, empty, unjustified, unproven, uncorroborated, unsound, erroneous: He wasted a great deal of time refuting her ill-founded accusations.
illness n. sickness, disease, disorder, affliction, ailment, malady, complaint, infirmity, disability, indisposition, affection, Colloq bug: His illness is serious but not contagious.
illusion n. 1 deception, delusion, fancy, misconception, misapprehension, fallacy, error, mistake, mistaken or false impression: He is labouring under the illusion that he is a great pianist. 2 fantasy, day-dream, hallucination, phantasm, phantom, chimera, phantasmagoria, mirage, aberration, vision, spectre, figment of the imagination, will-o'-the-wisp, ignis fatuus: For years after he died, she had the illusion of seeing her father everywhere.
illustrious adj. distinguished, famous, noted, renowned, famed, eminent, well-known, prominent, important, notable, respected, esteemed, venerable, honoured, acclaimed, celebrated, great: He belongs in the same category as other illustrious generals, like Kitchener.
imaginary adj. fictitious, fanciful, fancied, chimerical, imagined, fictive, illusory or illusive, visionary, made-up, unreal, untrue, mythical or mythic, notional, abstract; legendary, mythological: When he was a boy, he had an imaginary friend called Carbonario.
imitate v. 1 mimic, copy, ape, parrot, monkey, emulate, impersonate, do an impression of; echo, simulate: Cruikshank was imitating the boss, who walked in at that very moment. His style imitates that of Carlyle. 2 copy, mimic, mock, parody, satirize, burlesque, caricature, travesty, Colloq spoof, take off, Brit send up: In Hudibras, Samuel Butler imitated the style of the heroic epic.
immature adj. 1 premature, undeveloped, unripe, rudimentary, half-grown, unformed, unfledged, fledgling, unfinished, young, new, fresh, incomplete: The immature growth in the spring is not hardy enough to survive a frost. 2 green, callow, unsophisticated, nave, jejune, inexperienced, babyish, childish, childlike, puerile, juvenile, raw, Colloq wet behind the ears: She is a bit immature to assume so many responsibilities.
immense adj. enormous, gigantic, extensive, vast, huge, massive, voluminous, tremendous, staggering, stupendous, mammoth, colossal, giant, titanic, Cyclopean, jumbo, elephantine, Brobdingnagian, Slang US humongous: Our exit from the cave was blocked by an immense boulder.
immoderate adj. excessive, extreme, exorbitant, unreasonable, inordinate, extravagant, intemperate; outrageous, preposterous, exaggerated, unrestrained, undue: Their immoderate demands for reparations cannot be met.
immortalize v. celebrate, honour, glorify, memorialize, commemorate, apotheosize, canonize, beatify, exalt, ennoble, extol: Dickens's father was immortalized as Mr Micawber.
imp n. devil(kin), demon, sprite, evil spirit, hobgoblin, goblin, elf, pixie or pixy, leprechaun, puck, brownie, fairy; scamp, urchin, gamin, rogue, rascal, mischief-maker, brat: Sitting on my shoulder as I write is a tiny imp that inserts the misspellings. Give me a hug, you little imp!
impale v. spear, stab, pierce, skewer, spit, stick, transfix, spike: They impaled the heads of their enemies on poles as a warning.
impassioned adj. passionate, inspired, spirited, stirring, fervent, emotional, fervid, ardent, heated, warm, rousing, aroused, vehement, zealous, eager, earnest, enthusiastic, vigorous, animated, fiery, inflamed, glowing: The barrister made an impassioned plea for the accused.
impeccable adj. faultless, flawless, perfect, ideal, pure, correct, proper, spotless, immaculate, unblemished, spotless, unimpeachable, blameless: His lectures, though impeccable in content and style, lacked fire.
imperative adj. 1 mandatory, compulsory, necessary, required, requisite, demanded, obligatory, indispensable, essential, crucial, vital, urgent, pressing, exigent: It is imperative that we catch the 5.04 to London. 2 imperious, commanding, authoritarian, overbearing, peremptory, autocratic, domineering, magisterial, lordly, arbitrary, dictatorial, dogmatic, tyrannical, despotic, Colloq bossy: We were all shaken into obedience by her imperative tone.
imperial adj. 1 kingly, kinglike, queenly, queenlike, princely, princelike, regal, royal, sovereign: The imperial court was rich and splendid. 2 majestic, royal, regal, lofty, exalted, supreme, august, noble, superior, imposing, splendid, magnificent, grand, excellent: Her imperial presence outshone all at the ball.
impertinent adj. presumptuous, insolent, bold, brazen, impudent, brash, saucy, pert, uncivil, forward, impolite, discourteous, disrespectful, audacious, rude, Colloq cheeky, fresh, brassy, US nervy: That impertinent little upstart had the nerve to ask the lady's age!
implacable adj. unappeasable, unmollifiable, unpacifiable, unforgiving, intractable, uncompromising, inflexible, inexorable, unyielding, unrelenting, ruthless, cruel, pitiless, merciless, hard, rigid, unsympathetic, uncompassionate: Ever since that incident at school he has been my implacable enemy.
implicate v. 1 involve, include, associate, embroil, ensnare, entrap, enmesh, entangle: Don't implicate me in your hare-brained schemes! 2 incriminate, inculpate, connect, involve, associate, suspect, concern: Wasn't he implicated in that fraud case last year?
impolite adj. discourteous, ill-mannered, uncivil, rude, ungracious, ungentlemanly, unladylike, pert, disrespectful, saucy, boorish, churlish, crude, indecorous, indelicate, unrefined, ill-bred, vulgar, coarse: The waiter was so impolite that I refused him a tip.
important adj. 1 significant, consequential, critical, material, vital, urgent, portentous, weighty, grave, substantial, momentous, signal: If it is important, put it in writing. 2 leading, prominent, notable, noted, noteworthy, worthy, eminent, distinguished, respected, high-ranking, top-level, high-level, superior, outstanding, foremost, conspicuous, impressive: She is the most important member of the committee. 3 influential, effective, well-connected, powerful, formidable, mighty, impressive: With those important politicians supporting him, he might win.
impossible adj. 1 hopeless, impracticable, inconceivable, unimaginable, unthinkable, unattainable, unsuitable, out of the question, unachievable, unrealizable, unworkable, unresolvable, unsolvable: Reading of the cipher is impossible without a key. 2 absurd, ludicrous, preposterous, ridiculous, illogical, unworkable, outrageous, farcical, outlandish, crazy, weird: Inventors came up with the most impossible designs for aeroplanes.
impoverished adj. 1 destitute, poor, poverty-stricken, penurious, beggared, needy, necessitous, impecunious, in sore or bad straits, straitened, in distress, badly off, bankrupt, insolvent, ruined, Colloq (dead or flat) broke, stony-broke, bad off, pinched, up against it, on one's uppers, short, US strapped, wiped out, Slang Brit skint: A series of failed harvests left many farmers impoverished. 2 stripped, barren, desolate, wasted, empty, depleted, denuded, drained, exhausted: Two years of drought left the land impoverished.
impregnable adj. invulnerable, impenetrable, inviolable, unconquerable, invincible, unbeatable, indomitable, secure, safe, mighty, well-fortified: The walls of the castle, sixteen feet thick, were impregnable.
impressionable adj. suggestible, susceptible, persuadable or persuasible, impressible, receptive, responsive: They seek to enrol students who are at an impressionable age.
improbable adj. doubtful, dubious, unlikely, questionable, unrealistic, far-fetched, remote, implausible, unthinkable, hard to believe or imagine, inconceivable, unbelievable, fanciful, incredible, ridiculous, ludicrous, absurd, crazy, mad, insane, wild, weird, peculiar, strange; impossible; Colloq fishy: It is improbable that they will marry. He gave the most improbable excuses.
improvement n. 1 betterment, amelioration; reform, rehabilitation, upgrading, enhancement, repair: The committee is working for the improvement of the neighbourhood. 2 recovery, rise, increase, gain, advance, upswing, progress; recuperation, convalescence: There was an improvement in share prices after release of the trade figures. The patient shows considerable improvement. 3 advance, change for the better: This year's crop is an improvement over last year's.
impudence n. impertinence, effrontery, insolence, disrespect, presumption, presumptuousness, audacity, shamelessness, pertness, sauciness, boldness, brazenness, incivility, rudeness, impoliteness, Colloq lip, gall, guff, sauce, mouth, Brit backchat, side, US back talk, Slang chutzpah: He had the impudence to suggest that I was too old for the job!
impurity n. 1 pollution, contamination, defilement, adulteration, dirtiness, uncleanness, foulness: The impurity of the water in our rivers is a cause for concern. 2 Often, impurities. dirt, contaminant, pollutant, pollution, smut, filth, foreign matter or body: This filter is guaranteed to remove impurities from the water. 3 unchastity, immorality, sinfulness, wickedness, evil, vileness, corruption, degeneration, depravity, looseness, wantonness, lust, lustfulness, promiscuity, promiscuousness, libidinousness, dissoluteness, licentiousness, obscenity, prurience, dirtiness, filthiness, lubricity, salaciousness, lasciviousness, lewdness, lecherousness: Children ought not be exposed to the impurity encountered on everyday television.
inaccessible adj. 1 unavailable, unobtainable, unattainable, unreachable, unapproachable: The minister has made himself inaccessible for interviews. 2 impenetrable, impassable, out-of-the-way: The tomb lies in a part of the jungle inaccessible except by air.
inadequate adj. 1 insufficient, deficient, not enough, too little, scarce, meagre, scanty, skimpy, sparse, (in) short (supply); unsatisfactory, imperfect, incomplete, defective, unsuitable, disappointing, flawed, faulty: Funds are inadequate to meet her expenses. The terms of the agreement are inadequate. 2 inadequate to. unsuited to or for, unfit for, unqualified for, not up to, unequal to, unworthy of, inapt for, inept for, incapable of: He proved inadequate to the demands of the job.
inane adj. silly, asinine, vapid, vacant, vacuous, absurd, fatuous, foolish, senseless, nonsensical, unreasonable, preposterous, ludicrous, ridiculous, laughable, risible, mad, lunatic, crazy, stupid, dumb, idiotic, moronic, imbecilic, Colloq nutty, nuts, daft, daffy, screwy, batty, dippy, wacky, cuckoo, loony, goofy, Brit bonkers, dotty: Students seem especially prone to inane behaviour.
inarticulate adj. 1 disjointed, unconnected, incoherent, incomprehensible, jumbled, unintelligible, unclear, illogical, discursive, rambling, scrambled, wild, irrational, muddled, mixed-up, confused, digressive: She sat through an inarticulate lecture on Joyce's use of the subjunctive. 2 mumbled, garbled, blurred, muffled, muttered, faltering, halting, indistinct, unclear, unintelligible: They communicate with each other in inarticulate grunts. 3 speechless, tongue-tied, (struck) dumb, mute, voiceless: Ed is inarticulate when it comes to describing Vera.
inauspicious adj. unpromising, unlucky, unfortunate, unfavourable, unpropitious, untoward, ill-starred, ominous, ill-omened, ill-fated, portentous, menacing, doomed, sinister, dark, gloomy, cloudy, clouded, black: The middle of a recession is an inauspicious time to set up a business.
incapacitate v. disable, cripple, paralyse, lame, wound, maim, impair, weaken, enfeeble, enervate, exhaust, devitalize; immobilize, inactivate, deactivate, put out of action, indispose: Severely incapacitated in the crash, John cannot walk without the aid of crutches. The power plant was incapacitated by one well-placed grenade.
incidental adj. 1 casual, chance, fortuitous, aleatory, random, haphazard, serendipitous, unpredictable, accidental, adventitious, unplanned, unlooked-for, Colloq fluky: Any good that came from the war was incidental. 2 subordinate, secondary, ancillary, minor, lesser, non-essential, unimportant, trivial, negligible, inconsequential, insignificant, petty, trifling, paltry: The incidental events were not covered by the press.
incite v. stimulate, inspire, prompt, move, stir, stir or whip or work up, bestir, excite, fire, exhort, agitate, foment, inflame, provoke, rally, goad, spur, prick, prod, drive, push, egg on, encourage, urge, influence, wake, waken, awaken, rouse, arouse: Who was it that incited the crowd to violence?
inclination n. 1 bow, bowing, bend, bending, nod, nodding, tilt, tilting: His tacit sign of recognition was an inclination of his head. 2 slope, slant, angle, bend, incline, tilt: The inclination of the track is far too steep for such a vehicle. 3 disposition, predisposition, tendency, bent, bias, leaning, preference, turn, cast, proclivity, propensity, attitude, proneness, susceptibility, predilection, partiality, affection, taste, liking, desire, velleity: His inclination in favour of the offer is largely instinctive. 4 desire, longing, craving, appetite, taste, stomach, sympathy, predilection, penchant, fancy, eagerness, enthusiasm, zeal, fervour, ardour: I have no inclination to watch open-heart surgery.
inclusion n. incorporation, involvement, counting, numbering, grouping, classification: The inclusion of her name among the culprits was an error.
incombustible adj. non-flammable, non-inflammable, fireproof, non-combustible; flame-proof: She has to wear incombustible clothing at her job.
incompatible adj. mismatched, unsuited, discordant, clashing, jarring, inconsistent, contradictory, conflicting, uncongenial, irreconcilable, incongruous; antithetic, opposed, opposite, contrary, antipathetic, antagonistic, hostile: The colours in the carpet are incompatible with those in the curtains. My sister and I are totally incompatible and can never meet without arguing.
incomprehensible adj. unintelligible, unfathomable, impenetrable, deep, abstruse, arcane, recondite, indecipherable, undecipherable, inscrutable, cryptic, obscure, opaque, dark, occult, perplexing, mysterious, mystifying, enigmatic, puzzling, over (someone's) head, baffling, unimaginable, inconceivable: They spoke in Swahili, an incomprehensible language to me.
inconsequential adj. unimportant, insignificant, trivial, trifling, nugatory, inconsiderable, inappreciable, negligible, minor, paltry, petty, immaterial, slight, lightweight, worthless, Colloq piddling: Why dwell on inconsequential details?
inconspicuous adj. unnoticeable, unnoticed, unobtrusive, unostentatious, insignificant, indefinite, indistinguishable, undistinguished; modest, unassuming, discreet: Wearing a grey coat and hat, he was quite inconspicuous in the crowd. He played an inconspicuous role in the entire affair.
incontrovertible adj. irrefutable, indisputable, indubitable, undeniable, incontestable, unquestionable, sure, certain, definite, definitive, established, absolute, positive: The fingerprint was incontrovertible evidence that he had been there. inconvenience n. 1 disadvantage, discomfort, pain, trouble, bother, annoyance, nuisance, awkwardness, disturbance, disruption, burden, drawback, hindrance, impediment, difficulty, upset: How are you coping with the inconvenience of walking with crutches? 2 cumbersomeness, unwieldiness, burdensomeness, onerousness, troublesomeness, disadvantageousness, awkwardness, inappropriateness, untimeliness: The delay has led to considerable public inconvenience. --v. 3 discommode, trouble, incommode, disturb, disrupt, upset, put out, bother, annoy, irritate, irk: Would it inconvenience you to meet me at the station?
incorrigible adj. bad, naughty, villainous, wicked, sinful, hopeless; intractable, unchangeable, unalterable, habitual, inveterate, incurable, stubborn, hardened, obdurate, inflexible, uncontrollable: When a teenager, Giles was absolutely incorrigible. Among other things, he was an incorrigible liar.
incredulous adj. disbelieving, unbelieving, dubious, doubtful, sceptical, mistrustful, distrustful, suspicious: We were incredulous when we learnt who had won the award.
incumbent adj. 1 obligatory, necessary, required, mandatory, compulsory, binding, demanding, commanding, prescribed: As their father, you ought to feel it incumbent on you to talk to the children's teachers. 2 office-holding: The incumbent chairman is not responsible for his predecessor's mistakes. --n. 3 office-holder, official, occupant: As the incumbent, you have a better chance of being re-elected.
indecent adj. 1 indecorous, indelicate, immodest, improper, unbecoming, unsuitable, unfit, inappropriate; in bad taste: When he proposed marriage she accepted with indecent haste. 2 unseemly, shameless, shameful, offensive, outrageous, repellent, repulsive, distasteful, ill-mannered, rude, suggestive, coarse, risqu, vulgar, blue, obscene, gross, rank, prurient, dirty, foul, filthy, pornographic, ithyphallic, scatological, salacious, lascivious, licentious, lewd, lubricious or lubricous, smutty, vile, degenerate, debauched: There are always a lot of complaints about indecent language on television.
indefinite adj. 1 uncertain, undetermined, undefined, imprecise, inexact, inexplicit, unspecified, unsettled, unfixed, unspecific, non-specific, vague, general, indeterminate, undecided, sub judice: The time of the meeting was indefinite. 2 vague, unclear, obscure, confused, confusing, puzzling, baffling, cryptic, bewildering, mystifying, equivocal, ambiguous, unspecific, non-specific, inexplicit, inexact, imprecise: Your directions for getting here were too indefinite. 3 ill-defined, undefined, blurred, blurry, hazy, indistinct, obscure, dim, fuzzy, unrecognizable, indistinguishable: Indefinite shapes loomed in the fog. 4 unlimited, unknown, uncounted, uncountable, undefinable, indeterminate, indeterminable, unbounded, boundless, immeasurable, incalculable, limitless, endless, infinite: He pondered the indefinite capacities of the mind. 5 hesitant, vague, shilly-shallying, vacillating, indecisive, undecided, inconstant, wavering, unsure, uncertain, Colloq wishy-washy: She is still indefinite about going to the party.
indentation n. notch, dent, nick, cut, score, mark, depression, impression, hollow, dimple, pit; Typography indention: The chair legs had left small indentations in the parquet floor. The indentation of each paragraph should be five spaces.
index n. 1 guide, directory, list, listing, table of contents, catalogue, key, thesaurus: To find synonyms for a word in this book, look first in the index. 2 mark, sign, clue, token, hint, pointer, indicator, indication, guide: An index to his feelings can be seen in the way he treats people. 3 index finger, forefinger, first finger; pointer, marker, needle, Chiefly Brit typography hand, Chiefly US typography fist: Use an index to emphasize important paragraphs. 4 ratio, measure, formula, factor: The cephalic index is the ratio of the width of a skull to its length multiplied by 100.
indicator n. pointer, needle; gauge, meter, display: The indicator reads exactly 67C.
indigenous adj. 1 native, local, autochthonous, endemic, natural, aboriginal, original: The indigenous inhabitants were displaced by marauding tribes. 2 innate, inborn, inbred, inherent: It is often difficult to distinguish between man's indigenous and his acquired characteristics.
indignation n. anger, fury, rage, wrath, exasperation, irritation, annoyance, vexation, resentment, Literary ire, choler: She was filled with righteous indignation at the treatment she received.
indiscretion n. 1 imprudence, tactlessness, improvidence, injudiciousness, rashness, recklessness, audacity, boldness, temerity, impulsiveness, hastiness, haste, impetuousness, impetuosity, thoughtlessness, insensitivity, heedlessness, carelessness, navety, foolishness, foolhardiness, folly: He was guilty of indiscretion in talking to the press about the confidential report. 2 blunder, error, mistake, slip, lapse, misstep, gaffe, faux pas, peccadillo, Colloq boner, Brit bloomer: He spent much of his adult life paying for the indiscretions of his youth.
indisputable adj. unquestionable, incontrovertible, incontestable, irrefutable, undeniable, indubitable, beyond doubt, sure, certain, positive, definite, definitive, absolute, fixed: It was indisputable that the outlook was grim. The show was an indisputable success.
individualist n. independent, freethinker, nonconformist, maverick, loner, lone wolf: Nick is an individualist and seldom agrees with the majority.
indolent adj. lazy, slothful, sluggish, idle, lethargic, shiftless, languorous, languid, torpid, inert, inactive, stagnant, fainant, listless: 'Peel me a grape', she said in her most indolent manner.
induct v. 1 install or instal, inaugurate, invest, instate, establish, swear in: Crocker was inducted as president of the lodge last night. 2 call up, enlist, conscript, enrol, register, US draft: He was inducted into the army at 18.
industrious adj. sedulous, assiduous, hard-working, diligent, intense, conscientious, energetic, dynamic, aggressive, vigorous, untiring, tireless, indefatigable, unflagging, persistent, pertinacious, dogged, tenacious, US hustling: The business was built up only because she was so industrious.
ineffectual adj. 1 unsuccessful, unavailing, futile, bootless, sterile, barren, fruitless, unproductive, ineffective, inefficacious, inoperative: Our efforts to deal with pollution have been largely ineffectual. 2 weak, feeble, effete, impotent, tame, lame, powerless, inefficient, incompetent, inadequate: We tried to read the inscription by the ineffectual light of a match.
ineptitude n. 1 ineptness, clumsiness, awkwardness, maladroitness, ungainliness, gaucherie, incompetence, inefficiency, unfitness, unsuitableness: He displays a remarkable ineptitude for the pronunciation of French. 2 inappropriateness, inaptness, absurdity, unsuitability, unseemliness: The ineptitude of her comments embarrasses everyone.
inestimable adj. 1 incalculable, immeasurable, measureless, untold, incomputable; priceless, invaluable, precious: You have been of inestimable help in completing the project on time. 2 countless, innumerable, vast, immense, prodigious, boundless, unfathomable, infinite, incalculable, immeasurable, measureless, untold, incomputable: An inestimable number of organisms have inhabited the earth.
inexhaustible adj. 1 limitless, boundless, unlimited, unbounded, unrestricted, endless, measureless, indeterminate, infinite, incalculable: The supply of tasteless television programmes seems virtually inexhaustible. 2 untiring, tireless, indefatigable, unflagging, unfailing, unfaltering, unwearying, unwearied: Bartell is an inexhaustible practical joker. inexpensive adj. cheap, economical, low-priced, low-cost, reasonable, budget-priced: What might seem inexpensive to you is very costly for me.
inexpressible adj. unutterable, ineffable, unspeakable, indescribable, indefinable: I felt inexpressible joy at seeing my children again.
infamous adj. 1 notorious, disreputable, ill-famed, stigmatized, scandalous, discreditable, dishonourable, ignominious: So this is the infamous house where the murders took place! 2 bad, awful, wicked, evil, iniquitous, villainous, heinous, vile, abominable, outrageous, execrable, abhorrent, opprobrious, despicable, loathsome, detestable, odious, foul, scurvy, rotten, atrocious, flagitious, revolting, monstrous, egregious, base, low, shameful, disgraceful: A number of infamous criminals are portrayed in the Chamber of Horrors.
infatuated adj. fascinated, beguiled, enchanted, bewitched, spellbound, charmed, ensorcelled, enraptured, possessed, hypnotized, mesmerized, captivated, besotted, taken with, obsessed, smitten, enamoured, fond: Francis is completely infatuated with the girl who moved in next door.
inferior adj. 1 lower, nether: We descended into the inferior regions of the cavern. The numeral in H2O is called an inferior character. 2 lesser, lower, subordinate, secondary, junior, minor, unimportant, insignificant, lowly, subservient, humble, servile: He occupies an inferior position in the company. 3 poor, bad, low-quality, mediocre, indifferent, imperfect, defective, second-rate, second-class, substandard, low-grade, shoddy, gimcrack, Colloq grotty, junky, crummy or crumby, lousy, Slang crappy, Brit naff: They tried to market an inferior product, but it was rejected by consumers. --n. 4 subordinate, underling, junior, menial, lackey, flunkey, dogsbody, cat's-paw, doormat, stooge, yes-man, lickspittle, bootlicker: She is tired of being treated as an inferior.
infest v. invade, plague, beset, overrun, overspread, flood, swarm over, inundate, pervade, permeate, penetrate, infiltrate: Mosquitoes infested this area before the swamp was drained.
infirm adj. 1 ill, indisposed, debilitated, frail, fragile, weak, feeble, weakened, ailing, decrepit, enfeebled, failing, wasted, on the decline, sick, sickly, unwell, lame, crippled: Campbell is infirm and unable to travel. 2 shaky, flimsy, wobbly, wobbling, doddering, unstable, faltering, vacillating, wavering, unsteady, unsteadfast, inconstant, changeable, irresolute: We must find stalwart recruits, recruits who are not infirm of purpose.
inflamed adj. irritated, sore, angry, chafing, chafed, red, swollen, heated, hot, fevered, feverish, infected, septic: The wound became inflamed and we had no medicine to reduce the infection.
inflate v. 1 blow up, balloon, expand, dilate, enlarge, swell, pump up, puff up or out, distend: We inflated two plastic bags to use as floats. 2 boost, increase: The price of the company's shares was inflated by rumours of a take-over bid. 3 exaggerate, amplify, magnify, blow up: He tends to inflate to huge proportions the small contribution he made to the project. inflated adj. 1 exaggerated, conceited, overblown, grandiose, puffed up, overstated, magnified, amplified, overdrawn, smug, egotistic, immodest, cocky, vain, self-important, Colloq Brit swelled-headed, US swell-headed: He has an inflated idea of the importance of his work. 2 grandiloquent, bombastic, orotund, high-flown, pompous, pretentious, extravagant, magniloquent: She always talks about her husband in such inflated terms.
influential adj. powerful, weighty, strong, forceful, effective, effectual, efficacious, instrumental, telling, significant, persuasive, dominant, leading, guiding, authoritative, predominant, important, substantial, prestigious, significant, controlling: He comes from an influential family. What factors were influential in reaching your decision?
informative adj. communicative, instructive, educational, edifying, revealing, illuminating: We found his report about the missiles very informative.
infringe v. 1 violate, contravene, break, disobey, transgress, overstep: Publication of this article has infringed her right to a fair trial. 2 infringe on or upon. intrude on, impinge on, trespass on, encroach on, invade: Never let pleasure infringe on the domain of duty.
ingenuity n. ingeniousness, genius, brilliance, cleverness, skill, shrewdness, cunning, craft, art, knack, flair, dexterity, dexterousness, adroitness, acuteness, sharpness, keenness, resourcefulness, adeptness, aptness, smartness, canniness, gift, talent, ability, capability, faculty, deftness, handiness, inventiveness, creativity, creativeness, imagination, imaginativeness, originality: She displayed extraordinary ingenuity in preparing the case against the plaintiff.
ingratitude n. unthankfulness, ungratefulness, thanklessness, unappreciativeness, non-recognition: Despite the favours they had received, they showed their ingratitude by refusing to contribute to the fund drive.
inhale v. breathe in, inspire, draw or suck in: I stepped outside and inhaled the fresh spring air.
inhibit v. discourage, repress, frustrate, hold back, bridle, curb, control, govern, hinder, restrain, impede, obstruct, interfere with, check, prevent, bar, stop: Her sad look inhibited my expression of delight at seeing her again.
inhuman adj. 1 inhumane, merciless, cruel, pitiless, ruthless, heartless, severe, unsympathetic, unfeeling, unkind, unkindly, uncompassionate, cold-blooded, vicious, stony-hearted, hard-hearted, callous, insensitive, barbaric, barbarous, savage: Many refugees have suffered torture and other inhuman treatment. 2 animal, bestial, brutal, brutish, fiendish, diabolical, demonic: The spectre, assuming an inhuman form, loomed over them.
initiative n. 1 first move or step, lead, opening move: Hogan took the initiative by winning the first set. 2 enterprise, aggressiveness, drive, ambition, ambitiousness, resourcefulness, leadership, dynamism, energy, vigour, hustle, lan, Colloq get-up-and-go, pep, snap, zip, zing: At least she had the initiative to get the company back on a profitable basis.
injurious adj. 1 damaging, harmful, hurtful, bad, deleterious, unfavourable, detrimental, unhealthy, insalubrious, pernicious, destructive; adverse, ruinous: Smoking is said to be injurious to health. 2 abusive, insulting, scornful, slanderous, libellous, defamatory, scandalous, scurrilous, harsh, calumnious, disparaging, derogatory, deprecatory, contemptuous, denigrating, offensive: She speaks of her ex-husband in the most injurious terms.
inmate n. prisoner, convict, captive, jailbird or Brit also gaolbird, Slang Brit lag; patient, case; inhabitant, occupant, resident: The inmates were fed on bread and water in those days. Inmates at the sanatorium are well treated.
inopportune adj. inappropriate, malapropos, ill-timed, untimely, inconvenient, unsuited, unsuitable, out of place, unpropitious, unfavourable, inauspicious, ill-chosen, unseasonable, unseemly, untoward, unfortunate: Your call came at a most inopportune moment, as we were just sitting down to dinner.
inquisitive adj. 1 inquiring, curious, probing, questioning, interested, investigative, searching, exploring, analytical: Children have a naturally inquisitive nature. 2 prying, intrusive, Colloq snooping, snoopy, nosy or nosey: Don't be so inquisitive about things that don't concern you!
insecure adj. 1 uncertain, afraid, unsure, unconfident, nervous, worried, anxious, disconcerted, apprehensive, uncomfortable, shaky, jumpy, unnerved, fearful: Harry is beginning to feel insecure about his job. 2 unsafe, dangerous, unprotected, vulnerable, unguarded, defenceless, undefended, exposed, open: The machine-gun position is insecure and will soon be taken. 3 unstable, shaky, wobbly, precarious, infirm, weak, flimsy, frail, rickety, unsubstantial, rocky, unsound, unsteady, unreliable, uncertain: The structure collapsed because the footings were insecure.
insight n. perception, percipience, sensitivity, perspicacity, perceptiveness, perspicaciousness, discernment, acuteness, acuity, acumen, sharpness, understanding, judgement, comprehension, vision: Chambers has brought his considerable insight to bear on this complex problem.
insist v. 1 demand, require, call for, command, importune, urge, exhort, argue, remonstrate, expostulate: The chairman insisted that proper parliamentary procedure be followed. 2 assert, state, declare, emphasize, stress, maintain, persist, hold, dwell on, vow, avow, aver, asseverate: He insisted that he wanted to see the last act but she insisted on leaving.
inspect v. examine, scrutinize, study, scan, survey, vet, check (up (on) or out), investigate, pore over; peruse: The customs man inspected every last inch of our luggage.
installation n. 1 investiture, instatement, initiation, establishment, inauguration, induction, institution, placement, introduction, solemnization, swearing-in, consecration, Ecclesiastical ordination; crowning, coronation: Will you attend the installation of the new vice-chancellor? 2 fitting, placement, connection, positioning: The plumber will supervise the installation of the new heating system. 3 base, post, station, depot, camp, establishment: Military installations all over the country are being picketed.
instead adv. 1 as an alternative or a substitute: She wanted me to go but I stayed instead. 2 instead of. alternatively, preferably, in preference to, in place of, in lieu of, rather than, as a substitute for; as contrasted with, as opposed to: Instead of going to the cinema we went to the theatre.
institute n. 1 society, organization, association, league, alliance, guild: They tried to establish an institute for research on badgers. 2 See institution, 2. --v. 3 establish, found, launch, organize: The principles of sportsmanship were instituted on the playing fields of England. 4 inaugurate, introduce, initiate, set up, start, begin, originate, commence, pioneer: If you do not pay, we shall be obliged to institute proceedings against you.
instructive adj. informative, informational, informatory, educational, instructional, helpful, revealing, edifying, enlightening, illuminating: Studying the mistakes of others can be highly instructive.
insubordinate adj. disobedient, rebellious, defiant, refractory, mutinous, insurgent, insurrectional, insurrectionist, revolutionary, seditious, incompliant or uncompliant, uncooperative, recalcitrant, contumacious, fractious, unruly, perverse, contrary, obstreperous, Colloq Brit stroppy: The insubordinate officers have been court-martialled.
insulate v. 1 detach, separate, isolate, segregate, shelter, preserve, set or keep apart, sequester, sequestrate, quarantine: The rock star's aides did their best to insulate her from her screaming fans. 2 lag, protect, shield, cushion, wrap, cover: Insulate the pipes to prevent heat loss. Insulate the wire with this tape. Nitroglycerine must be insulated from shock.
intangible adj. impalpable, unperceivable, imperceptible, incorporeal, unsubstantial, insubstantial, imponderable, immaterial, ethereal, vaporous, airy, evanescent, vague, obscure, dim, imprecise, indefinite, shadowy, fleeting, elusive: The architect must deal with intangible ideas of design, how people work and live, etc.
intellect n. 1 rationality, reason, reasonableness, (common) sense, understanding, judgement, cleverness, intelligence, mind, Colloq brains: You have the intellect, my boy, but it wants developing. 2 See intellectual, 3.
intelligentsia n.pl. intellectuals, literati, savants, illuminati, masterminds, highbrows, Colloq brains, eggheads, brains trust: The government stifled free speech and persecuted the intelligentsia.
intensify v. concentrate, focus, sharpen, whet, strengthen, reinforce, heighten, escalate, deepen, quicken, emphasize, magnify, increase, augment, double, redouble, heat up, Colloq step up, Brit hot up: We must intensify our efforts to effect a settlement of the crisis. The war is intensifying.
intention n. aim, purpose, intent, design, goal, end, object, objective, target, ambition: Was it your intention to stay till the fat lady sings?
intercourse n. 1 commerce, traffic, trade, dealings, exchange, communication, contact, interaction: In normal business intercourse our paths often cross. 2 sexual intercourse, coitus, coition, sexual congress or union, mating, copulation, sexual relations, carnal knowledge, making love, lovemaking, intimacy, sexual connection, Colloq sex: The plaintiff admits engaging in intercourse with the defendant.
interfere v. 1 meddle, intrude, butt in, intervene, intercede, interpose, interrupt, Colloq horn in, put or stick in one's oar or one's oar in, poke one's nose in, US kibitz: Stop interfering in things that do not concern you. 2 hinder, impede, hamper, block, obstruct, encumber, slow, retard, handicap, set back, get in the way of, frustrate, conflict, inhibit, trammel, subvert, sabotage: Allow nothing to interfere with the course of true love.
interlude n. interval, entr'acte, intermission, pause, stop, stoppage, respite, interruption, break, hiatus, lacuna, gap, halt, wait, breathing-space, recess, rest, spell, lull, Colloq let-up: There is a ten-minute interlude between the acts.
intermittent adj. irregular, discontinuous, disconnected, sporadic, occasional, random, spasmodic, fitful, broken, periodic, alternating, cyclic(al), rhythmic(al), pulsating, seasonal, on-and-off, on-again-off-again, stop-and-go, stop-go: Tomorrow, intermittent showers in the morning will yield to sunshine. internal adj. See interior, 1, 2, 3.
interrogation n. questioning, examination, cross-examination, inquisition, investigation, Colloq third degree, grilling: Caught by the rebels, we were subjected to hours of interrogation.
interview n. 1 meeting, (press) conference, discussion, conversation, talk, question period, audience: The reporter phoned to ask for an interview. 2 evaluation, appraisal, vetting, assessment: I have a job interview scheduled for tomorrow. --v. 3 question, examine, interrogate, sound out, talk with or to: She interviewed the Prime Minister on television last night. 4 appraise, evaluate, check (out), vet: The headmaster himself interviews the teachers.
intolerance n. bias, prejudice, bigotry, discrimination, partiality, illiberality, narrow-mindedness, dogmatism; racism, racialism, sexism, classism, ageism, xenophobia: The government has legislated against intolerance of minorities.
intoxicating adj. 1 alcoholic, spirituous, inebriant: Do not drink intoxicating beverages if you plan to drive. 2 exhilarating, invigorating, thrilling, exciting, heady, stimulating, electrifying, entrancing, fascinating: Making a film of the life of Lola Montez is an intoxicating idea.
intrinsic adj. inherent, basic, fundamental, essential, proper, elemental, organic, natural, native, inbred, congenital, inherited, hereditary, innate, inborn, immanent, indwelling, underlying, constitutional; real, true, actual, genuine: As no painting has intrinsic worth, its value is arbitrary.
intruder n. 1 interloper, gatecrasher, uninvited guest, unwelcome visitor; trespasser, encroacher, invader, infiltrator, squatter; burglar, thief: The intruders were quickly expelled by the guards. 2 meddler, busybody, Colloq snoop(er), Nosy Parker, US kibitzer: You are an intruder into my private affairs.
invalid adj. void, null (and void), nullified, annulled, repudiated, untrue, false, faulty, erroneous, wrong, spurious; incorrect, imperfect, impaired, unsound, untenable, ineffective: He was driving with an invalid licence. Your reasons for quitting school are invalid.
invent v. 1 create, devise, contrive, originate, think up, dream up, conceive, concoct, make up, imagine, formulate, improvise, design, hit upon; coin: He claims to have invented the toothpaste tube. 2 fabricate, make up, concoct, Colloq cook up: She invented that story about having been a lion-tamer.
investigation n. enquiry or inquiry, examination, study, review, exploration, quest, search, probe, research, discovery procedure, scrutiny, analysis, inquest, inquisition, interrogation, questioning: Has the investigation turned up any evidence of collusion?
invitation n. 1 summons, request, call, bidding, Colloq invite: I am still waiting for my invitation to their wedding. 2 attraction, inducement, allure, allurement, enticement, temptation, magnetism, bait, lure, draw, pull: The possibility of going where no man had gone before was too great an invitation to ignore.
involved adj. 1 implicated, concerned, affected, interested, active: The public enquiry was attended by all involved members of the community. 2 tangled, complicated, complex, twisted, snarled, convoluted, confused, confusing, intricate, tortuous, elaborate, knotty, Byzantine, labyrinthine: The plot is too involved to be followed easily. The involved problems of adolescence cannot be treated in a one-day conference. 3 involved with. associated with, entangled with, embroiled with, enmeshed with, Colloq mixed up with: Dennis is still very much involved with that singer from the Green Dragon.
irrelevant adj. inappropriate, inapplicable, impertinent, unrelated, alien, inapposite, malapropos, beside the point, inapt, non-germane, unconnected, extraneous, neither here nor there, out of place, gratuitous, uncalled-for, Colloq out of the blue, off the beam, Slang off-the-wall: The name of the person who asked the question is entirely irrelevant.
irresolute adj. vacillating, wavering, faltering, indecisive, infirm of purpose, in or US only of two minds, undecided, hesitant, hesitating, shifting, changing, erratic, uncertain, unsure, undetermined, unresolved, half-hearted, Colloq wishy-washy: You must act; this is no time to be irresolute.
irreverent adj. 1 blasphemous, impious, profane, sacrilegious, unholy, ungodly, irreligious: She was reprimanded for her irreverent attitude to morning prayers. 2 disrespectful, insulting, insolent, rude, discourteous, uncivil, derisive, impudent, impertinent, saucy, flippant, mocking, tongue-in-cheek, Colloq flip, cheeky: The prince did not appreciate being the butt of the irreverent skit.
irritate v. annoy, vex, nettle, pester, provoke, bother, anger, enrage, chafe, pique, exasperate, ruffle, hector, harass, harry, nag, plague, worry, fret, fluster, trouble, pick at or on, Colloq needle, get under (someone's) skin, get in (someone's) hair, hassle, peeve, get on (someone's) nerves, drive (someone) up the wall, get (someone's) hackles up, get (someone's) back up, drive (someone) crazy or mad, rub (someone) (up) the wrong way, Brit get up (someone's) nose, US burn (someone) up: All these stupid questions are beginning to irritate me.
issue n. 1 outflow, outgoing, exit, egress, issuance, emanation, efflux, debouchment, emergence, outlet: The river's colour changed abruptly at its point of issue into the sea. 2 outcome, conclusion, consequence, culmination, result, end, effect, consummation, event, climax, Colloq pay-off: Whatever the issue, it has been a brave effort. 3 point, topic, subject, matter, affair, problem, question: That is an issue you should take up with the mayor. 4 Usually, major issue. (major or big) problem or difficulty, controversy, fight, dispute, cause clbre: He turns even walking the dog into a major issue. 5 printing, edition, version; copy, number: I have a copy of the Sunday issue. See if you can buy an issue of today's paper. 6 publication, promulgation, issuance, issuing, distribution, delivery, dissemination, broadcasting, proclamation, circulation: There will be a special issue of stamps to commemorate his death. 7 offspring, child or children, descendant(s), progeny, young, scion(s), son(s), daughter(s): According to the records, your uncle died without issue, making you his sole heir. 8 at issue. in contention, in dispute, unresolved, unsettled, uncertain, up in the air, to be decided: The point at issue is which system will be the most efficient. 9 take issue. disagree, argue, contend, dispute, oppose, take exception: I feel that I must take issue with your conclusion. --v. 10 proclaim, promulgate, declare, publish, put out, put or set forth, announce, circulate, distribute, get out, release, deliver, broadcast, disseminate, get out: The kidnappers have issued an ultimatum. 11 emerge, come or go forth, exit, emanate, discharge, stream, flow, pour; appear, originate, spring, stem, arise: The play ended, and people issued from the theatre. Where Pegasus stamped his foot the Pierian spring issued forth.
jabber v. 1 blether or US only blather, chatter, babble, gibber, gabble, prate, prattle, patter, drivel, rattle, Brit natter, Scots yatter, Colloq gab, gas, yap, witter: The couple behind me jabbered throughout the entire film. --n. 2 See jargon, 2.
jail n. 1 Brit gaol, prison, lock-up, reformatory, Brit Borstal, US penitentiary, reform school, Nautical brig, Slang cooler, clink, can, jug, stir, slammer, Brit nick, quod, choky or chokey, US calaboose, big house, pen, coop, hoosegow, pokey: They were sent to jail for life. --v. 2 imprison, lock up, incarcerate, detain, confine, Brit send down, US send up (the river): He was jailed for 30 days.
jangle v. 1 clatter, clash, rattle, clang, clank, crash, ring, jingle: The chains jangled as the prisoners marched to their cells. 2 jar, upset, irritate: The continuous screaming of the sirens jangled my nerves. --n. 3 jangling, clatter, clash, rattle, jarring, clang, clanging, clank, clanking, crash, clangour, noise, din, racket, clamour, dissonance, cacophony, reverberation, Literary stridor: I heard the jangle of the rag-and-bone man's cart in the next street.
jaundiced adj. 1 coloured, tainted, distorted, twisted, prejudiced, opinionated, biased, preconceived, untrustworthy, bigoted, partial, unfair, perverted; dishonest, corrupt: Even the most jaundiced view must acknowledge the merits of the plan. 2 splenetic, cynical, bitter, envious, resentful, jealous, hostile, spiteful, unfriendly, disapproving, critical, unfavourable, disparaging, denigrating: I can't say that I agree with Cartwright's jaundiced review of the play.
jeer v. 1 Often, jeer at. mock, laugh or scoff or sneer (at), flout, deride, ridicule, make fun of, thumb one's nose at, gibe or jibe, chaff, decry, twit, taunt, Colloq rag, bullyrag, roast, Brit cock a snook at, Brit and Australian barrack, Slang knock: Don't jeer at aromatherapy till you've tried it. --n. 2 taunt, gibe or jibe, aspersion, hoot, hiss, boo, catcall; derision, ridicule, obloquy: Just because he was fat, Christopher had to suffer the jeers of his classmates.
jerk v. 1 yank, wrench, pluck, nip, tug, twist, tweak: I jerked the dagger out of his hand, leaving him defenceless. 2 twitch, lurch, jolt, jump, start, jig, jiggle, wriggle, wiggle: The creature jerked about convulsively, screaming, then lay still. --n. 3 yank, pull, wrench, tug, twist, tweak: With a sharp jerk, he pulled the plaster from the child's leg. 4 lurch, jolt, start, bump: The train stopped with a jerk, throwing me off balance. 5 idiot, fool, moron, imbecile, Slang US dope, creep, yo-yo, nerd, dweeb: Why would she want to go out with a jerk like that?
jilt v. throw over, reject, dismiss, drop, discard, desert, break (up) with, forsake, abandon, Colloq ditch, dump, brush off or give (someone) the brush-off, Chiefly US and Canadian give (someone) his or her walking papers: Angela met Tony and promptly jilted Mike.
jitters n.pl. shakes, fidgets, nerves, uneasiness, queasiness, nervousness, skittishness, restlessness, apprehension, apprehensiveness, Slang heebie-jeebies, willies US whim-whams: He always gets an attack of the jitters before an exam.
joint n. 1 seam, union, juncture, connection, junction, intersection: The joint won't show after the whole thing's been painted. 2 Slang dive, dump, US and Canadian honky-tonk: We went into a joint in Soho, looking for some action. 3 roast: Who carves the Sunday joint at your house? --adj. 4 shared, mutual, combined, collective, cooperative, common, communal, collaborative: Our aims can only be achieved by joint effort.
jolly adj. 1 merry, cheerful, frolicsome, gay, jovial, joyful, sportive, convivial, jocund, jocose, jocular, frisky, coltish, playful, festive, jubilant, cheery, exuberant, high-spirited, animated: Everyone was in a jolly mood at her birthday party. --v. 2 Often, jolly along. humour, appease, deceive, string along, fool, hoax: They're just jollying him along because they want him to invest in their scheme.
journalist n. reporter, newspaperman, newspaperwoman, correspondent, newsman, newswoman, member of the fourth estate, gentleman or lady of the press, stringer; columnist; hack; newscaster, anchorman, anchorwoman, commentator, broadcaster, Brit pressman, paragraphist; newsreader, Colloq scribe, newsmonger, US and Canadian legman, news-hawk, news-hound, news-hen: Journalists crowded round the minister, urging her to make a statement.
joyless adj. 1 sad, unhappy, miserable, depressed, dejected, mournful, downhearted, downcast, down, despondent, dispirited, melancholy, heavy-hearted, cheerless, doleful, grief-stricken, disheartened, saddened, crestfallen, wretched, disconsolate, inconsolable, morose, heartsick, sorrowful, woeful, woebegone: It was a joyless company that stood at the grave side. The cat died, the dog died, and my husband was ill - all in all, a joyless time. 2 gloomy, depressing, dispiriting, disheartening, dreary, lugubrious, cheerless, dismal, bleak, inhospitable, desolate, grim, austere, severe: The shuttered, joyless house loomed out of the misty moor ahead.
judicious adj. sensible, commonsensical, sound, sober, intelligent, aware, enlightened, wise, sage, sapient, thoughtful, reasonable, rational, sane, logical, discerning, discriminating, discriminative, astute, perceptive, percipient, perspicacious, well-advised, (well-)informed, prudent, discreet, tactful, diplomatic, politic, careful, considered, circumspect: The treasurer was considered not to have made judicious use of the club's funds.
juicy adj. 1 succulent, moist, lush: This is a very juicy pear. 2 interesting, sensational, lurid, colourful, vivid, exciting, stirring, thrilling, intriguing, fascinating, provocative, suggestive, racy, spicy, risqu: I've got such a juicy piece of gossip for you!
jumpy adj. nervous, agitated, anxious, jittery, fidgety, restless, edgy, on edge, tense, shaky, skittish, fretful, uneasy, queasy, restive, panicky: Do you think he was jumpy because we were approaching Count Dracula's castle?
junk n. 1 rubbish, waste, refuse, litter, debris, scrap; US garbage, trash: A man came to cart away the junk that we had cleared out of the garage. --v. 2 Colloq discard, throw away, scrap, cast aside, jettison, US trash: We bought a new washing-machine and junked the old one.
justify v. vindicate, legitimate, legitimatize or legitimize, legalize, rationalize, substantiate, defend, support, uphold, sustain, validate, warrant, confirm; excuse, explain, absolve, acquit, exculpate: My worst fears were justified. How can you justify owning three cars?
keen v. 1 weep, wail, moan, lament, mourn, grieve; bewail, bemoan: Finnegan's widow still keens over him. --n. 2 dirge, elegy, knell, lament, lamentation, Requiem, monody, threnody, thanatopsis, epicedium , Scots and Irish coronach: The keens could be heard throughout the neighbourhood.
keg n. cask, barrel, butt, hogshead, tun, puncheon: We bought a keg of beer for the party.
kidnap v. abduct, capture, seize, carry off, Slang snatch: He was kidnapped by guerrillas and held prisoner for over two years.
killjoy n. spoilsport, damper, dampener, grouch, grump, malcontent, pessimist, cynic, prophet of doom, Cassandra, Colloq wet blanket, sourpuss, US party pooper, gloomy Gus, picklepuss: Go to the dance and stop being such a killjoy!
kindle v. ignite, light, set alight, set fire to, set afire, inflame, fire, foment, incite, instigate, provoke, prompt, prick, goad, spur, whip up, stir (up), work up, excite, agitate, shake up, jolt, arouse, rouse, (a)waken, inspire, inspirit, stimulate, animate, enliven, energize, innervate, galvanize: Kindling a fire in the rain is not easy. The wholesale pillaging kindled a feeling of deep resentment among the native population. kindly adj. 1 See kind. --adv. 2 cordially, graciously, obligingly, amiably, amicably, politely, genially, courteously, thoughtfully, considerately, hospitably, agreeably, pleasantly: He very kindly invited me in for a cup of tea. 3 please, be so kind as to, be good enough to: Would you kindly pass the salt?
kingdom n. 1 realm, empire, sovereignty, principality, monarchy: He sought a suitable wife throughout the kingdom. 2 field, area, domain, province, sphere (of influence), territory, bailiwick, Colloq turf: The operating theatre is the surgeon's kingdom.
kiss v. 1 osculate, peck, Colloq smack, smooch, neck, Old-fashioned spoon, canoodle: I kissed her on the cheek. A young couple were kissing on the park bench. 2 touch, brush, graze: The cue-ball barely kissed the black, toppling it into the pocket. 3 kiss goodbye. bid adieu, say farewell to, give up, relinquish, abandon, forsake, desert, renounce, repudiate, forget (about), dismiss, disregard, ignore: With those marks, you can kiss goodbye to any thought of winning a scholarship. --n. 4 osculation, peck, Colloq smack, smooch, US and Canadian buss, Slang Brit smacker: He ran over and gave me a big hug and a kiss.
kitty n. pot, pool, collection: Has he contributed anything to the kitty?
knock v. 1 strike, hit, rap, thwack, whack, thump, bang, tap: Knock on the door. He knocked the man on the head with his walking-stick. 2 Colloq criticize, deprecate, carp or cavil at, disparage, put down, run down: Don't knock something till you've tried it. 3 knock about or around. a wander, roam, ramble, rove, travel, gad about: She's going to knock about the world for a bit before settling down. b associate with, consort with: He was only knocking about with some of the boys. c discuss, debate, talk over, Colloq kick about or around: I have a business proposition that I want to knock around with you. d beat (up), maltreat, mistreat, maul, manhandle, batter, abuse, hit, strike: He's been known to knock his wife about. 4 knock down. a raze, demolish, destroy, level, wreck, lay in ruins, throw or pull down: They knocked down those beautiful old houses and erected an ugly office block in their place. b fell, floor, cut down: As soon as he got up, McCloskey knocked him down again. 5 knock off. Colloq a stop work(ing), quit, go home, clock off or out, terminate, lock up, close down: I think I'll knock off for a few hours' rest. b steal, pilfer, thieve, rob, Colloq lift, Brit pinch, Slang Brit nick, US knock over: Two men in balaclavas knocked off the bank in the High Street. c See kill, 1. d make quick or short work of, complete, finish, bring to an end, Colloq polish off: He knocked off that book in a week. e US copy, imitate: They knock off expensive items, then sell them for much less than the originals. 6 knock out. a knock or render unconscious, floor, prostrate, trounce, whip, Slang flatten, KO or kayo: The smart money says that the challenger will knock out the champion in the third round. b overwhelm, overcome, daze, stagger, astound, astonish, bewilder, stun, Colloq bowl over, blow (someone's) mind, Slang Brit knock for six: She'll really knock them out in that dress! 7 knock up. a knock or put together, improvise: I think I can knock up something quickly that will pass muster. b arouse, (a)waken, wake up: They knocked me up at dawn to go to work. c Slang impregnate, get with child, make pregnant: Her boyfriend knocked her up and then refused to marry her. --n. 8 blow, rap, tap, thump, pounding, hammering: I was woken by a knock on the wall from my neighbour. 9 blow, punch, jab, smack, thwack, whack, right, left, cuff, Colloq clout, bop, biff, conk: He gave me a knock on the nose, and it started to bleed. 10 slap (in the face), censure, criticism, condemnation, slur, insult: My latest novel took quite a few knocks from the reviewers.
knot n. 1 snarl, gnarl, tangle; tie, bond: I cannot loosen this knot. 2 collection, assemblage, aggregation, congregation, crowd, cluster, bunch, gathering, company, band, gang, crowd, throng: A small knot of people were standing in front of my painting. --v. 3 fasten, tie, bind, secure, lash, tether, affix, fix, attach: I knotted the rope around his neck.
knowledgeable adj. 1 knowledgable, aware, au fait, au courant, up to date, (well-)informed, (well-)acquainted, cognizant, familiar, enlightened, expert, knowing, Colloq in the know: She is knowledgeable about events in eastern Europe. 2 well-educated, erudite, learned, cultured, well-read, intelligent, sophisticated, worldly, wise, sage, sagacious: Professor Evans is one of the most knowledgeable people I have ever met.
labour n. 1 toil, (hard) work, travail, exertion, effort, laboriousness, strain, drudgery, pains, industry, slavery, donkey-work, Colloq sweat, grind, elbow-grease, Brit swot: They know the labour involved in building a road. 2 employees, workers, wage-earners, labourers: A meeting between labour and management is scheduled for today. 3 effort, task, job, chore, undertaking: Raising funds for the museum was a labour of love. 4 travail, childbirth, parturition, labour pains, contractions, delivery: She went into labour at midnight, and the twins were born just after four. --v. 5 work, toil, travail, drudge, strain, strive, struggle, slave, Colloq sweat, grind, Brit peg away (at), swot: We laboured hard to get where we are today. 6 dwell on, overdo, overemphasize, harp on, overstress, strain, Colloq belabour: I heard you the first time, so don't labour the point. 7 labour under. be burdened or troubled or distressed by, be deluded or deceived by, be disadvantaged by, suffer, endure: He is labouring under a misapprehension. She labours under the impression that she will not be affected by a lack of education.
lace n. 1 lace-work, tatting, openwork, filigree, mesh, web, webbing, net, netting, network: She wore a collar of handmade lace. 2 shoelace, shoestring, bootlace, cord, string, thong, tie, lacing: They made me remove my belt, tie, and laces before locking me in a cell. --v. 3 thread, weave, string, twine, interweave, intertwine: First lace the cord through the eyelets, then draw it tight. 4 spike, fortify, strengthen: I saw her lace my punch with vodka, so I didn't drink it. 5 lace into. a attack, assault, beat, assail, thrash, belabour, fall on or upon, set upon, pounce on or upon, lay into, Colloq light into: The brothers laced into one another with a fury. b berate, scold, revile, attack, upbraid, castigate, rant or rave at: She really laced into me for being an hour late for dinner.
lacklustre adj. drab, dull, lustreless, flat, dingy, colourless, dismal, dreary, unexciting, boring, prosaic, tiresome, tedious, wearisome, uninteresting, two-dimensional, insipid, vapid, bland, unimaginative, thick, slow, dense, Colloq wishy-washy, blah: He gave a very lacklustre performance as Shylock. She has been leading a lacklustre life since John left.
laggard n. straggler, idler, dawdler, loiterer, slouch, sluggard, loafer, snail, loller, Colloq Brit slowcoach , US slowpoke: As a young boy he was always the laggard, dragging along behind everyone else.
lame adj. 1 crippled, disabled, handicapped, hobbled, limping, incapacitated, impaired, halting, halt, spavined, Colloq US gimpy: The mare was found to be lame after the previous day's hunting. 2 feeble, weak, flimsy, thin, unconvincing, unpersuasive, awkward, clumsy, poor, ineffective, Colloq half-baked: Refusing to go because you have a headache sounds like a pretty lame excuse to me.
lampoon n. 1 burlesque, caricature, satire, parody, pasquinade or pasquil, squib, Colloq take-off, Brit send-up: The students published a hilarious lampoon of the teaching staff. --v. 2 burlesque, caricature, satirize, parody, pasquinade or pasquil, mock, ridicule, squib, US skewer, Colloq take off, put or run down, Brit send up: The cows we hold most sacred are often lampooned by irreverent cartoonists.
landlady n. 1 proprietor or proprietress, lady of the house, mistress, manager or Brit manageress, hostess: My landlady owns three bed and breakfasts. 2 See landlord, 2, below.
language n. 1 speech, tongue, idiom, parlance, dialect, idiolect, patois, jargon, cant, argot, vernacular, Colloq lingo: How many languages do you speak? 2 communication, intercourse, interaction: Karl von Frisch studied the language of the bees. 3 jargon, lingua franca, vocabulary, terminology, vernacular, Colloq lingo: In medical language, a head cold is called 'coryza'. 4 wording, words, phrasing, phraseology, style, diction: Guarantees, insurance policies, and other such things should be written in simple language.
lapse n. 1 slip, error, mistake, fault, failing, oversight, blunder, shortcoming, omission, Formal lapsus, Colloq slip-up, fluff, goof: Apart from a brief lapse, the child behaved very well. Owing to a lapse, your payment was not credited. 2 gap, break, interval, intermission, interruption, pause, lacuna, hiatus, Prosody caesura, Colloq hold-up: Listeners in Scotland experienced a lapse in transmission, for which we apologize. 3 decline, lowering, fall, deterioration, drop, diminution, descent: There has been a serious lapse in church attendance. --v. 4 decline, lower, fall, drop, diminish, sink, slip, slump, subside, deteriorate: Despite the doctor's best efforts, he lapsed into a coma. 5 run out, expire, be discontinued, become void, terminate, end, cease, stop: Your option to sell the shares at the offering price lapses on Friday. 6 pass, elapse, go by, slip away: Three months had lapsed since she last saw him.
lark n. 1 frolic, spree, escapade, caper, fling, romp, adventure, revel, jape, game, antic, horseplay, shenanigans, mischief, prank, practical joke: The boys say they took the horse just as a lark. --v. 2 Often, lark about. frolic, caper, romp, revel, play, sport, cavort, gambol, Colloq skylark: We spent a lot of time larking about after our exams.
lass n. girl, young woman, miss, mademoiselle, schoolgirl, Old-fashioned maiden, maid, damsel, demoiselle; Scots lassie, Irish colleen: He has married a young lass from Arbroath.
last n. mould, matrix, form, model, pattern: These shoes were not made on the same last as those.
lather n. 1 suds, froth, foam: He spread lather on his face and began to shave. 2 sweat; dither, fuss, pother, flutter, Colloq tizzy, state, flap: He got into a real lather when he missed the train. --v. 3 soap (up); foam, froth: The barber lathered my chin thoroughly. 4 thrash, beat, belabour, maul, drub, flog, whack, pummel, buffet, whip, flail, lash: If he dared to swear, his father would lather him.
laugh v. 1 titter, giggle, snigger, snicker, chuckle, chortle, guffaw, split one's sides, Colloq break or crack up, roll on the floor, go into hysterics, roar with laughter, hoot: Whenever he wore his hat, they couldn't stop laughing. 2 Often, laugh at. a deride, ridicule, mock (at), jeer (at), make a mockery of, poke fun (at), make fun or sport (of), make an ass or a fool (out) of, tease, taunt, pull (someone's) leg, satirize, pasquinade or pasquil, parody, lampoon, jest (at), joke (about), scoff (at), scorn, Colloq Brit take the mickey out of, US roast: They laughed when I sat down - I didn't know the chair was broken. Why did the other children laugh at you? b laugh away or off, spurn, dismiss, brush aside, minimize, shrug off, reject, ignore, disregard, deny, belittle, Colloq pooh-pooh: He laughed off his injury and insisted on continuing to work. --n. 3 titter, giggle, snigger, snicker, chuckle, chortle, guffaw, horse laugh: She would do anything for a laugh.
laurels n.pl. honour(s), distinction(s), fame, awards, tributes, rewards, acclaim, acclamation, glory, renown, celebrity, popularity, reputation; successes, accomplishments: With no new fields to conquer, he is resting on his laurels.
lawful adj. 1 legal, licit, legitimate, de jure, constitutional, just, rightful, valid, proper: I am the lawful heir. 2 permissible, allowable, justifiable, authorized, allowed, permitted: It is not lawful to let your dog foul the footpath.
lax adj. 1 loose, slack, casual, slipshod, easygoing, careless, negligent, permissive, weak, indulgent, flexible, relaxed: Law enforcement has always been lax in that city. 2 imprecise, undefined, indefinite, non-specific, unspecific, vague, shapeless, amorphous, general, broad, inexact, hit-or-miss, careless, untidy, Colloq sloppy: His ideas about tactics are too lax for a military man.
lazy adj. 1 indolent, slothful, dilatory, idle, shiftless, inactive, listless, fainant, otiose, slack, lax, lethargic: He's so lazy and so rich that he pays someone just to walk his dog. 2 slow, languid, easy, easygoing, sluggish, slow-moving, languorous: The hot lazy summer days were whiled away fishing.
leadership n. direction, guidance, management, directorship, administration, supervision, command, regulation, control, operation, influence, initiative; governorship, superintendence, running: The company made huge profits under Katherine's leadership. The leadership of the country at this time was in the hands of the privileged class.
league n. 1 confederation, association, alliance, combination, coalition, federation, confederacy, guild, society, fraternity, union, band, fellowship, club: The teams in the south favour forming a football league of their own. 2 in league (with). allied (with), united (with), associated (with), leagued (with), federated (with), collaborating (with), conspiring (with), in collusion (with), Colloq in cahoots (with): The suspects are said to be in league with saboteurs. --v. 3 ally, unite, associate, band, combine, collaborate, join (forces), conspire, collude: Did most people league with the rebels or the official government?
leaning n. bent, inclination, bias, prejudice, favouritism, partiality, predilection, liking, taste, preference, penchant, sympathy, tendency, tendentiousness: The judges' leanings in favour of short-haired dogs are well known.
learner n. student, pupil, scholar, trainee, apprentice, novice, tiro or tyro, abecedarian, beginner, initiate, neophyte: Learners of English as a second language will benefit from this book.
leave n. 1 permission, authorization, consent, freedom, liberty, licence, sanction, dispensation: Who gave you leave to borrow my car? 2 furlough, leave of absence, time off, sabbatical, recess, holiday, vacation: I am overworked and badly in need of some leave. 3 departure: He took his leave of us at last.
leery adj. suspicious, sceptical, dubious, doubtful, doubting, distrustful, wary, cautious, chary, careful: I was very leery of his story.
leftover n. 1 Usually, leftovers. remainder(s), remnant(s), rest, residue, residuum, balance, surplus, excess, superfluity, overage; scrap(s), leavings, crumbs, odds and ends, debris or dbris, refuse, waste, rubbish, rubble, detritus, Archaic orts: I'm just having leftovers for dinner tonight. --adj. 2 remaining, residual, extra, excess, unused, uneaten: Save some of the leftover ice-cream for later.
legend n. 1 epic, saga, myth, story, (folk) tale, romance, narrative, fable, tradition, fiction, Scandinavian Edda: There are scores of legends woven into the cultural fabric of our lives. 2 celebrity, phenomenon, tradition, wonder, luminary, personage, somebody: Someone said that Rudolph had become a legend in his own mind. 3 key, table of symbols, code, explanatory note: Refer to the legend for explanations of symbols used in the map. 4 motto, slogan, inscription, caption, title: The legend reads, 'Dieu et mon droit'.
leisure n. 1 spare or free time, time (off), liberty, freedom, opportunity: How many people these days have the leisure to do what they like? 2 holiday, vacation, respite, relief, rest, recreation, relaxation, ease, breathing-space, quiet, tranquillity, repose, US military rest and recreation, R and R: Everyone needs a few days of leisure now and then. 3 at leisure. a unoccupied, inactive, retired, resting, free, on holiday or chiefly US and Canadian vacation; at liberty, available, unemployed: I have been at leisure for a year now. b Often, at one's leisure. at one's convenience, when convenient, unhurriedly, in one's own time: I shall mow the lawn at my leisure. --adj. 4 recreational: The 'leisure industry' is booming with theme parks opening throughout the country. 5 free, unoccupied, non-working, unencumbered, idle, holiday, vacation: How do you usually spend your leisure time?
lengthen v. make longer, extend, elongate; stretch, drag out, draw out, prolong, protract, expand, continue: I need to lengthen the skirt an inch. The ten-minute interview lengthened into an hour. They lengthened the playing field.
let v. 1 allow (to), permit (to), sanction (to), give permission or leave (to), authorize (to), license (to), suffer (to): Don't let him go alone. Let George do it. 2 cause (to), arrange for, enable (to): Let me know if you have any difficulty. Let me help you. Let the police know of any crime. 3 Sometimes, let out. rent (out), hire (out), lease (out), charter (out); contract (out), subcontract (out), farm (out), job (out): Mrs Finney lets rooms by the week. Much of the work is let out to people who work at home. 4 let down. disappoint, fail, frustrate; disenchant, dissatisfy, disillusion: He promised to be here at nine, but he let me down. 5 let in. admit, allow in; include, take in, receive, welcome, induct, install or instal: I'll just open a window and let in some fresh air. I wouldn't want to be a member of a club that would let in someone like me. 6 let off. a pardon, forgive, excuse, release, discharge, let go: They let him off with only a severe reprimand. b exonerate, absolve, clear, acquit, vindicate, Slang let off the hook: When the real culprit confessed, she was let off. c detonate, explode, detonate, discharge, fire, set off: Don't let off those fireworks so near the haystack. d emit, give out or off, release, throw off or out, let loose, exude: Some plastics let off an awful smell when they burn. 7 let on. a confess, admit, disclose, divulge, reveal, expose, let it be known, let out, say, tell, give away, let slip, betray; leak: I'll never let on that you are to blame. b feign, affect, pretend, fake, (put on an) act, simulate, dissemble, dissimulate: He let on that he had a bad leg and couldn't play in the match, when in fact he just wanted to go away for the weekend. 8 let out. a See 7 (a), above. b (let) loose, liberate, (set) free, release, let go, discharge: He served three years before being let out. Let the cat out, will you. c emit, give vent to, produce: She let out a scream that could have woken the dead. d end, stop, break up, finish, close, terminate: When does school let out for the Christmas holidays? 9 let up. decrease, abate, ease (up), slacken, diminish, lessen, mitigate, subside, moderate: Perhaps we can still go if the rain lets up soon. 10 let up on. ease up on, slack off on: He didn't let up on haranguing us for an hour.
lethargic adj. 1 lethargical, sluggish, slow, dull, heavy, lazy, indolent, phlegmatic, slothful, idle, languid, languorous, listless, fainant, inactive, torpid, stuporous, comatose; indifferent, apathetic: They were so lethargic that they did absolutely nothing about it. 2 weary, tired, fagged out, fatigued, enervated, weak, exhausted, drowsy, sleepy, somnolent: I have a bad cold and feel very lethargic.
let-up n. cease, stop, stopping, ceasing, cessation, surcease, break, interruption, pause, intermission, suspension, time out or off; moderation, lessening, abatement, diminution, relief, hesitation, respite, relaxation: I was nagged without let-up about getting the work done by the end of the month.
liable adj. 1 likely, apt, prone, inclined, disposed: She is liable to want payment for her contribution. 2 answerable, responsible, accountable, obligated, blameable, blameworthy, Law actionable: An owner is liable for damage done by his dog. 3 exposed, susceptible, vulnerable, open, subject: Certain kinds of plants are more liable to disease.
liberal adj. 1 generous, bountiful, free, open-hearted, open, open-handed, bounteous, charitable, philanthropic, munificent, magnanimous, big, big-hearted, unstinting, unselfish, unsparing; lavish, abundant, ample, large, handsome, plentiful, copious: Lady Browning is a liberal benefactor of our cause. Thank you for your liberal contributions. 2 progressive, libertarian, reformist, humanistic, left (of centre), latitudinarian, non-partisan, unaligned or non-aligned, individualistic, South African verligte: The liberal voters found little to attract them in the latest election. 3 free, not literal, flexible, lenient, loose, broad, open, disinterested, impartial, dispassionate, fair, broad-minded, open-minded, unprejudiced, unbigoted, unjaundiced, unopinionated, tolerant: Judge Reid is known for his liberal interpretation of the law. --n. 4 progressive, libertarian, reformer, progressivist, latitudinarian, independent, freethinker, leftist, left-winger, South African verligte: They think of themselves as liberals, not as conservatives.
libertine n. 1 lecher, reprobate, profligate, rake, rakehell, rou, debaucher, womanizer, seducer, fornicator, adulterer, debauchee, whoremonger, philanderer, Don Juan, Lothario, Casanova, Colloq wolf, lady-killer, (old) goat, dirty old man: He fancied himself a libertine, but women shunned him like the plague. --adj. 2 licentious, lecherous, reprobate, profligate, rakish, rakehell, philandering, dissolute, immoral, degenerate, depraved, debauched, decadent, dirty, filthy, amoral, wanton, lewd, lascivious, prurient, lubricious or lubricous, salacious, Paphian, libidinous, ruttish, goatish, hircine, satyric(al), carnal, bestial, Colloq randy, Slang horny: A paragon of prudery to his family, Viscount Guarnier secretly led a life of wild, libertine abandon.
lie v. 1 prevaricate, fabricate, misrepresent, invent, commit perjury, perjure or forswear oneself, Colloq fib: If he says that I ate the last cake, he's lying. --n. 2 falsehood, untruth, falsification, misrepresentation, fiction, invention, prevarication, fib, fabrication, Colloq story, cock-and-bull story, (tall) tale, whopper, US fish story, fish tale: His claim of having been attacked was found to be a lie.
lifelike adj. authentic, realistic, natural, true to life, real, faithful, graphic, vivid: She painted a very lifelike picture of her cat.
lighten v. 1 illuminate, brighten, light up: Opening the curtains would lighten up the room. 2 cheer (up), brighten, gladden, shine; smile: Her face lightened when he said he would be home for the holidays.
likeable adj. likeable, genial, amiable, congenial, pleasant, simpatico, agreeable, pleasing, attractive, appealing, nice, friendly, winning, charming, engaging, good-natured, winsome: He is likeable enough, but not my ideal son-in-law.
likeness n. 1 similarity, resemblance, correspondence, analogy, agreement, parallelism: The artist has caught her likeness in the second painting. 2 copy, replica, facsimile, duplicate, reproduction, model, representation, portrait, painting, picture, drawing, photograph, sculpture,statue, statuette, image, simulacrum, icon or ikon: He sells miniature likenesses of the Eiffel Tower to tourists. 3 appearance, face, figure, image: The premier's likeness appears on posters throughout the country.
limit n. 1 Sometimes, limits. extent, bound(s), end, limitation, check, curb, restriction, restraint: Is there no limit to how far you will go to get your own way? 2 Often, limits. border, edge, end, extent, boundary, bound(s), (boundary or border or partition) line, frontier, perimeter, periphery: That row of poplars marks the limit of the property to the east. 3 Often, limits. area, territory, confines, zone, region, quarter, district, precinct(s): Stay outside the three-mile limit. We have jurisdiction only within city limits. 4 the limit. a the end, the last straw, the straw that broke the camel's back, all (that) one can take, enough, too much, Colloq it: Your presumption is the absolute limit - you can't seriously expect me to lend you money. b outrage, joke, surprise, Colloq caution: Wasn't Nigel the limit in that hat!? --v. 5 check, curb, bridle, restrict, restrain, hold in check: We must limit spending on arms. The shackles limited my movements. 6 restrict, confine, delimit, narrow, focus, guide, channel: Please limit your questions to the subject at hand. 7 set, define, determine, fix: The bank manager has limited my overdraft to half what it was.
limp adj. 1 flaccid, flabby, lax, slack, soft, drooping, relaxed, unstarched, unstiffened, soft, flexible, pliable, floppy, loose: The banners hung limp in the still, sultry air. 2 exhausted, tired, fatigued, worn out, spent, enervated, wasted, debilitated, weak, feeble, frail: He felt limp with exhaustion after the day's hiking. 3 weak, feeble, ineffective, ineffectual, flimsy, half-hearted, lukewarm, spineless, thewless, namby-pamby, Colloq wishy-washy Slang gutless: Having to visit her grandmother seemed a pretty limp excuse to me.
linen n. Often, linens. bedclothes, bed linen(s), sheets and pillowcases; table linen(s), napery, tablecloths and napkins; bath linen(s), towels and wash-cloths: The soiled linen is sent to the laundry.
link n. 1 tie, bond, coupling, connector, vinculum; element, constituent, component: A chain is no stronger than its weakest link. 2 connection, tie-up, tie-in, relation, relationship, association, affiliation, interdependence: What is the link between her arrival and his sudden departure? He thinks he's identified the missing link. --v. 3 Often, link up. couple, join, fasten (together), unite; concatenate: They linked arms to form a barrier. 4 connect, tie (up or in or together), associate, relate, identify with: I cannot help feeling that this murder links up with the others.
list v. 1 lean (over), tilt, slant, heel (over), tip, careen, cant, incline: The ship suddenly listed to starboard and I was thrown onto the deck. --n. 2 lean, tilt, slant, heel, tip, cant, slope, inclination: The leak caused a severe list to port.
literal adj. 1 word-for-word, verbatim, line-for-line, letter-for-letter, literatim, exact, precise, faithful, strict: In a literal translation the spirit of the original is often lost. 2 denotative, etymological, semantic, dictionary, lexical, basic, essential, pure, simple, simplistic, real, objective, true, genuine, bona fide, unvarnished, unadulterated, unembellished, simple-minded, uncomplicated, unbiased, unprejudiced, Colloq honest-to-goodness, honest-to-God: 'Female parent' may be the literal definition of mother, but it doesn't convey the emotional and connotative senses of the word. 3 prosaic, matter-of-fact, colourless, dull, down-to-earth, literal-minded, unimaginative, humdrum, boring, tedious: His literal approach to everything spoils the conversation for those who have any spirit.
litigant n. litigator, party, plaintiff, appellant, suitor, petitioner, suer, defendant, appellee, accused: The judge suggested that the litigants settle out of court.
live adj. 1 living, breathing, animate, viable, existent; material, physical, tangible, real, actual, palpable: She said she'd rather be a live beggar than a dead countess. My cat brought me a live mouse into the house the other day. 2 energetic, lively, spirited, vigorous, active, dynamic, busy; current, contemporary: Our new advertising agency seems to have some live ideas. The other party made nuclear disarmament a live issue in the election. 3 burning, glowing, flaming, alight, red-hot, white-hot: A live coal popped out of the grate onto the carpet. 4 loaded, explosive, unexploded, combustible: Builders have dug up a live bomb in London. 5 charged, electrified: Don't touch a live wire or you'll get a shock. --v. 6 breathe, exist; function: There has never lived a more gifted scholar. She lives as a recluse. 7 survive, persist, last, persevere, endure; spend, continue, live out, complete, end, conclude, finish: He lived out his days happily in Torquay. 8 reside, dwell, be; abide, stay, remain, lodge, room: He normally lives in Acton, but at the moment he's living with his mother in Kent. 9 subsist, get along, survive, fare: Many old-age pensioners complain that they have barely enough to live on.
loaded adj. 1 overloaded, overwhelmed, burdened, laden, weighted (down), filled (up), chock-full, chock-a-block, stuffed, jammed, packed, crowded, brimming, brim-full, crammed: A fully loaded lorry has overturned near exit 5. The train was loaded with commuters. 2 charged, primed, ready: Be careful - the gun is loaded. 3 charged, tricky, manipulative, insidious, prejudiced, prejudicial, trap, devious: 'When did you stop beating your wife?' is what anybody would call a loaded question. 4 rich, wealthy, affluent, moneyed, well-to-do, well off, Colloq flush, well-heeled , US in the chips, Slang rolling in it: I hear that her new husband is really loaded. 5 drunk: He was loaded before he even went to the party.
loan n. 1 advance, allowance, credit, accommodation: We needed a loan to pay for Melissa's education. --v. 2 lend, advance, allow, credit: The bank loaned us enough money to buy a car.
loathsome adj. detestable, abhorrent, odious, hateful, disgusting, execrable, abominable, despicable, contemptible, noisome, offensive, horrible, repulsive, repugnant, nauseating, sickening, revolting, nasty, vile: Without warning, the loathsome beast attacked me. She died shortly of a loathsome disease.
locale n. site, location, spot, place, setting, venue, neighbourhood, situation, locality: We moved the locale of the film to Spain.
lock n. tress, curl, ringlet: As a love token, she sent him a lock of her hair.
logic n. 1 reasoning, deduction, dialectics, ratiocination, inferential or scientific reasoning: Mill defined logic as the science of proof, or evidence. 2 (good or common) sense, sound judgement, wisdom, presence of mind: According to Disraeli, England was not governed by logic. 3 reasonableness, intelligence, judiciousness, practicality, rationality: Your logic is valid, but you are forgetting the human factor.
long adj. 1 extensive, extended, elongate(d), large, great, big: That is a very long snake! 2 lengthy, prolonged, protracted; extensive, extended, sustained: I waited for a long time.
look-alike n. twin, double, exact or perfect likeness or match, clone, Colloq spitting image or spit and image; doppelgnger; Slang (dead) ringer: She is such a perfect look-alike of Princess Di's that people follow her in the street.
loophole n. outlet, way out, means of escape, escape, subterfuge, pretext, evasion, quibble, Colloq dodge: They couldn't prosecute him because he found a loophole in the law.
lop v. Often, lop off. chop off, trim, top, head, crop, prune, dock, clip, trim, snip off, shear off, cut off, pare, shorten, hack off, amputate: Lop the lower branches off close to the trunk.
lose v. 1 mislay, misplace, displace, part with; suffer the loss of, be deprived of: I lost my pen. He lost a leg in the war. 2 forfeit, yield: He says he lost the rent money gambling. 3 give up, yield, capitulate, admit defeat, succumb, bow to, be defeated or conquered, suffer defeat, be beaten or overcome or worsted or bested, Colloq lose out: It was a good game, but we lost. 4 waste, let slip, squander, dissipate, fritter or trifle away, run out of; consume, use (up), expend, spend: We lost a lot of time waiting for him to decide. 5 elude, evade, escape, throw or shake off, give the slip: I managed to lose the sinister-looking man who was shadowing me.
lot n. 1 collection, batch, consignment, assortment, group, portion, set, quantity, grouping, apportionment: They are expecting a new lot of furniture this afternoon. 2 luck, fortune, destiny, fate, kismet, plight, doom, end: It seems to be my lot to stay in the same place all my life. 3 lottery, drawing, raffle, drawing lots or straws: The winner will be decided by lot. 4 share, portion, division, interest, part, allotment, assignment, apportionment, ration, allowance: Marguerite was bequeathed the house, while my lot included the paintings. 5 a lot or lots. a a good or great deal: You have a lot of nerve! I'd give a lot to be able to paint like you. He got into a lot of trouble. b much, loads or a load, mountains or a mountain, tons or a ton, barrels or a barrel, stacks or a stack, piles or a pile, heaps or a heap, masses or a mass, oceans , Colloq oodles, scads, US gobs: She has lots of money. c many, myriad, numerous, countless, reams, infinite or an infinity, quantities or a quantity, enormous numbers or an enormous number, Colloq oodles, scads, loads, tons, masses,: There are lots of fish in the sea. 6 the lot. everything, Colloq the whole kit and caboodle, all: I'll give you a fiver for the lot.
lounge v. 1 idle, loaf, laze, loll, languish, vegetate: After dinner, we lounged till midnight, sipping port. --n. 2 sitting-room, salon, front room, parlour: Mother insisted that we entertain visitors in the lounge. 3 lobby, foyer, waiting-room, reception (room), vestibule: I was waiting in the lounge when the doctor returned. 4 cocktail lounge, (lounge or saloon) bar: We went into the lounge and ordered a drink. 5 sofa, couch, divan, studio couch, day-bed, settee, settle, love-seat, chaise longue; causeuse, tte--tte; US and Canadian Davenport: The psychoanalyst has a lounge on which you lie while talking to him.
love n. 1 warmth, affection, attachment, fondness, tenderness, devotion, attraction, friendship, amity, regard, admiration, fancy, adoration, adulation, ardour, passion, fervour, rapture, infatuation: Her love for him grew over the years. 2 liking, delight, enjoyment, pleasure, fondness, attraction, predilection, bent, leaning, proclivity, inclination, disposition, weakness, partiality, preference, taste, relish, passion: In his retirement, Charles has developed a love for golf. 3 darling, beloved, sweetheart, sweetie, sweet, honey, dear one, dearest, angel, turtle-dove, true-love, light of one's life, lover, paramour, mate, intended, betrothed; girlfriend, inamorata, lady-love, young lady, fiance; boyfriend, beau, inamorato, suitor, swain, young man, fianc, Archaic leman, tally, US POSSLQ (= 'Person of the Opposite Sex Sharing Living Quarters'), Colloq girl, woman, guy, man: Let me tell you something, my love. Come live with me and be my love. 4 sympathy, tenderness, concern, charity, care, solicitude, affinity, rapport, harmony, brotherhood, sisterhood, fellow-feeling: He has great love for his fellow human beings. 5 love affair. a amour, liaison, affair, romance, relationship, affaire de coeur, intrigue: He's been having a love affair with his secretary. b passion, mania, Colloq thing: George allows nothing to interfere with his love affair with tennis. 6 make love (to) or (with). embrace, cuddle, caress, fondle, have sexual intercourse, Archaic take, know, Colloq neck, pet, canoodle, romance, have sex, make the beast with two backs, US and Canadian make out; Taboo slang screw, fuck, hump, bang, Brit roger, bonk: He still makes love to his wife even though they are both in their eighties. --v. 7 cherish, admire, adore, be in love with, lose one's heart to, worship, idolize, dote on, treasure, be infatuated with, think the world of, adulate, hold dear, like, Colloq be hung up on, be crazy or nuts or wild or mad about, have a crush on: Only after ten years of friendship did she discover that she loved him. 8 delight in, take pleasure in, derive pleasure or enjoyment from, relish, be partial to, have a passion or preference or taste for, be attracted to, be captivated by, be fond of, like, enjoy, appreciate, value, Colloq get a kick from or out of, be wild about, be thrilled by, US get a bang or charge from or out of: She loves chocolates. I just love your new dress! Love me, love my dog.
low v. moo, bellow; bawl: The lowing herd moved slowly into the pasture.
loyal adj. faithful, true, dependable, devoted, trustworthy, trusty, steady, steadfast, staunch, trusted, reliable, stable, unswerving, unwavering, dedicated, constant, patriotic: Give me twelve men loyal and true and we shall rout the enemy.
ludicrous adj. ridiculous, laughable, absurd, farcical, nonsensical, preposterous, incongruous, asinine, foolish, silly, zany, crazy, comical, risible; funny, facetious, droll, waggish, jocular, witty, jocose: The explanations of the new tax laws have been carried to ludicrous extremes. You can count on Billy to come up with some ludicrous prank on April Fools' Day.
lull n. 1 pause, respite, interlude, intermission, interval, break, hiatus, interruption, stop, halt, lapse, delay, Literary caesura, Colloq let-up: After a brief lull, the hurricane resumed in all its ferocity. 2 quiet, quiescence, hush, calm, calmness, stillness, silence, peace, peacefulness, tranquillity: There was a lull, then the noise of the artillery again shattered the night. --v. 3 soothe, calm, quiet, hush, pacify, mollify, tranquillize: Do not let her sweet words lull you into a sense of false security. I was lulled to sleep by the crickets and the bees.
lump v. Usually, lump it. allow, tolerate, suffer, put up with, bear, stand, brook, endure: I'm afraid you'll just have to lump it, whether you like it or not.
lurch n. leave in the lurch. desert, abandon, forsake; drop, jilt: He left her in the lurch, waiting at the church.
lurk v. skulk, slink, prowl, steal, sneak, hide, (lie in) wait, lie low: The muggers were lurking in the shadows, waiting for a victim.
lustful adj. libidinous, carnal, concupiscent, licentious, lewd, prurient, lascivious, salacious, Colloq horny, randy: On her way to work she was forced to endure daily the lustful calls of the construction workers.
luxuriant adj. 1 abundant, profuse, copious, lush, rich, bounteous, overflowing, full, luxurious: Her luxuriant hair hung down to her waist. 2 lavish, full, rank, prolific, thriving, rife, exuberant, lush, abounding, plenteous, abundant, superabundant, dense, fruitful, teeming: The luxuriant orange groves are yielding a bumper crop this year. 3 ornate, elaborate, decorated, fancy, rococo, baroque, flowery, frilly, florid, overdone, flamboyant, showy, ostentatious, gaudy, garish, Colloq flashy: The elders disapproved of the luxuriant ornamentation of the churches.
lying n. 1 prevarication, fibbing, mendacity, mendaciousness, falsification, untruthfulness, perjury; dishonesty, deceit, duplicity: She was accused of lying while under oath. --adj. 2 untruthful, false, mendacious, hypocritical, dishonest, deceitful, deceptive, duplicitous, treacherous, perfidious: Whoever told you they had found the solution is a lying scoundrel.
machiavellian adj. deceitful, cunning, shrewd, crafty, wily, foxy, scheming, tricky, perfidious, nefarious, treacherous, sneaky: Mr Williams has concocted a truly machiavellian plan for getting the pensioners to move out.
macho adj. manly, masculine, virile, proud, arrogant: He's afraid his macho image will be destroyed if he admits to enjoying ballet.
madman n. madwoman; lunatic, psychopath, psychotic, maniac, Colloq crackpot, psycho, loony, screwball, US kook, Slang nut, nutcase, Brit nutter: I am working like a madman to finish the book by the deadline.
magician n. 1 conjuror or conjurer, illusionist, wizard, sorcerer, sorceress, magus, necromancer, enchanter, enchantress, Merlin, Houdini, Circe, witch, warlock; thaumaturge, theurgist: The court magician changed the pebbles into precious stones by a wave of his wand. 2 marvel, miracle-worker, virtuoso, wizard, genius, master, Colloq whiz: Mary Lou Williams is a magician on the boogie-woogie piano.
magnificent adj. great, excellent, splendid, superior, superb, marvellous, glorious, grand, fine, impressive, imposing, awe-inspiring, impressive, brilliant, commanding, august, noble, majestic, regal, distinguished, elegant, exalted, sublime, outstanding; sumptuous, resplendent, opulent, rich, luxurious, lavish: She lives in a magnificent country house.
mail n. 1 post, correspondence; letters: Has the mail arrived? --v. 2 post, send, dispatch or despatch: Please mail this letter tonight.
mainstay n. main or chief or principal support, anchor (to windward), sheet anchor, bulwark, buttress, linchpin, main or greatest strength: David remains the mainstay of the sales force.
major adj. 1 larger, greater, bigger, main, chief, important: Henderson grabbed the major portion of the credit. 2 vital, important, critical, crucial, principal, foremost, paramount, primary, prime, main, big, biggest, pre-eminent, notable, noteworthy, significant, outstanding, dominant, dominating; serious, grave, worst: The major problem in commercial kitchens is sanitation.
make-up n. 1 cosmetics, maquillage, greasepaint, Colloq warpaint: Do you think I am wearing too much make-up? 2 constitution, character, cast, disposition, personality: There is not an ounce of sympathy in Janet's make-up. 3 constitution, arrangement, construction, composition, format, configuration, build, form: What is the chemical make-up of the plastic?
manacle n. 1 manacles. shackles, fetters, handcuffs, gyves, chains, irons, Colloq cuffs, Slang bracelets, Brit darbies: The manacles are cutting into his wrists. --v. 2 shackle, fetter, handcuff, restrain, put or throw or clap in irons, chain, Colloq US cuff: The manacled prisoner was led away. 3 confine, inhibit, restrain, curb, check, control, hamper: They felt manacled by the nine o'clock curfew.
manager n. supervisor, superintendent, director, executive, head, proprietor, overseer, foreman, forewoman, administrator, Chiefly Brit manageress , US straw boss, Colloq boss, chief: The position of manager entails a lot of responsibility.
manhandle v. maul, paw, rough up, batter, beat (up), pummel, abuse, mistreat, maltreat, ill-treat, trounce, belabour, Slang knock about or around, clobber: His captors manhandled him into a car and drove off.
maniac n. 1 madman, madwoman, lunatic, psychopath, psychotic, Colloq crackpot, Slang nut, Brit nutter, loony, US kook: In former times, maniacs were scorned and maltreated. 2 fanatic, fan, enthusiast, zealot, Slang freak, fiend: Since his retirement, he has become a golf maniac.
manifestly adv. evidently, clearly, obviously, plainly, apparently, patently, unmistakably or unmistakeably, palpably, unquestionably, indubitably, undoubtedly, indisputably: The treaty is manifestly to England's advantage.
manner n. 1 way, mode, style, technique, procedure, method, fashion; means, approach: Her incisive manner of reporting is widely admired. 2 air, behaviour, mien, demeanour, bearing, deportment, comportment, conduct, attitude, aspect: His manner is overbearing and dictatorial. 3 manners. etiquette, decorum, (good) form, politeness, proprieties, protocol, politesse, civility, ceremony, social code, social graces, formalities, niceties, amenities, social conventions; behaviour, conduct: Can't you teach him some manners?
mantle n. 1 cloak, cape, wrap, shawl, pelisse, pelerine: Over his armour he wore a mantle embroidered with his bearing. 2 covering, cover, sheet, veil, blanket, screen, cloak, shroud, pall, canopy, curtain: A mantle of snow lay on the ground. --v. 3 cover, clothe, envelop, surround, encircle, shroud, veil, screen, obscure, cloak, conceal, hide, mask, wrap, disguise: The mountains were brilliantly mantled and capped with snow.
many adj. 1 numerous, multitudinous, myriad, profuse, innumerable, numberless, uncountable: Many people have an irrational fear of spiders. 2 diverse, multifarious, varied, various, assorted, sundry, Literary divers: There are many kinds of courage. --pron. --n. 3 horde(s), crowd(s), lot(s), swarm(s), throng(s), mass(es), profusion, multitude(s), abundance, plenty, shoal(s), flock(s), drove(s), torrent(s), flood(s), number(s), score(s), hundred(s), (thousand(s), etc); Colloq ton(s), scads: A great many will turn out to vote next week. Many are picked but few are chosen.
marginal adj. 1 borderline, minimal, small, slight, negligible, insignificant, tiny, infinitesimal: There are marginal differences in policy on this issue. 2 borderline, on the edge, disputable, questionable, doubtful, dubious: His qualifications for the job are marginal.
market n. 1 market-place, exchange, Stock Exchange: There are some excellent buys on the market. 2 shop, store, bazaar, supermarket, Chiefly US superstore: If you are going to the market, please buy some milk. 3 demand, customer base, call: The market for computers is still growing rapidly. --v. 4 sell, merchandise, retail, vend, peddle, hawk, make available, furnish; trade (in), buy and sell, deal in: We market these computers worldwide.
marsh n. swamp, bog, fen, slough, quagmire: The marsh teems with new life in the spring. martial adj. 1 warlike, belligerent, bellicose, pugnacious, militant: We had no suspicion of their martial intentions. He is an expert in the martial arts. 2 military, soldierly, courageous, brave, valorous, valiant, stalwart, staunch, stout-hearted: The speech was intended to rouse the soldiers' martial spirit.
masquerade n. 1 masked ball, masquerade ball, costume party, ballo in maschera, bal masqu: He went to the masquerade as Lorenzo di Medici. 2 disguise, deception, pose, dissimulation, bluff, subterfuge, false show, outward show, fakery, imposture, play-acting, false front, cover-up, camouflage, Colloq act, front, Slang put-on: How long will she continue her masquerade as a wealthy widow? --v. 3 Usually, masquerade as. pretend (to be), pass oneself off (as), impersonate, simulate, pose (as), imitate, mimic: He is a conservative masquerading as a liberal to garner votes.
massive adj. big, large, oversized, huge, bulky, enormous, hulking, immense, gigantic, towering, mammoth, colossal, titanic, vast, tremendous, prodigious, mountainous, gargantuan, Brobdingnagian, Cyclopean, elephantine, jumbo, stupendous, mighty, weighty, ponderous, Literary massy, Colloq walloping, whopping, monster, Brit whacking (great), US ginormous, humongous: They built a massive wall round the city. Massive beams support the roof.
masterpiece n. master-work, magnum opus, chef-d'oeuvre, tour de force, jewel, work of art, work of genius, pice de rsistance: Among his many fine paintings, I consider this his masterpiece.
mate n. 1 companion, associate, colleague, fellow, chap, co-worker, comrade, crony, ally, friend, alter ego, Colloq chum, pal, US buddy, cohort, Slang Brit cully, china: After work, my mates and I stop off for a beer or two (or three ) . 2 spouse, partner, helpmeet, helpmate, consort, husband or wife, better half, Colloq hubby, old man or lady or woman, lord and master, US bride, Slang trouble and strife (= 'wife'): He scarcely seems a worthy mate for the winner of a Miss World contest. 3 fellow, twin, counterpart, parallel, one of a pair: Have you seen the mate to this sock anywhere? --v. 4 pair (up), match (up), marry, wed, join, unite, couple, link (up): People should be free to mate with whom they wish. 5 breed, couple, copulate, pair (up): The zoo was able to get the rhinoceroses to mate. A lion was mated with a tiger to produce a tigon. 6 match (up), fit (together), synchronize, join: I cannot get these gears to mate.
materially adv. substantially, palpably, significantly, seriously, essentially, basically, considerably, greatly, much, in the long run, at bottom: I doubt that his criticism will materially affect the success of the play.
matrimonial adj. marital, marriage, wedding, conjugal, nuptial; married, wedded, connubial: She obtained a court injunction banning him from the matrimonial home. They enjoy matrimonial bliss.
maturity n. 1 adulthood, majority, full growth or development: Maturity is as much a state of mind as a matter of age. 2 ripeness, readiness, mellowness; maturation: Different wines need ageing for different periods to attain maturity. 3 readiness, perfection, completion, fullness, consummation, operability, applicability; maturation: Their plans were brought to maturity.
maximum n. 1 most, utmost, uttermost, greatest, peak, extreme, extremity, pinnacle, top, highest, (upper) limit: Turn the volume up to the maximum. 2 zenith, pinnacle, peak, limit, apex, acme, apogee, climax, crest, high(est) point, top, summit: Her career reached its maximum in the 1930s. --adj. 3 maximal, greatest, most, utmost, uttermost, superlative, supreme, paramount, extreme, highest, top, topmost, climactic, crowning: The maximum amount that I can afford for a car is 2000.
meagre adj. 1 scanty, scant, poor, paltry, inadequate, skimpy, scrimpy, sparse, spare, insufficient, bare, puny, piddling, trifling, pathetic, exiguous, Colloq measly: Angela scraped out a meagre living as a shop assistant. The meagre supplies wouldn't last another day. 2 spare, skinny, scrawny, bony, emaciated, gaunt, thin, lean, bare-boned, (half-)starved, underfed, undernourished, starving: The meagre faces of the survivors told of their ordeal. 3 spare, plain, bare-boned, unadorned, unembellished, unelaborate, unelaborated, simple, simplified, oversimplified, bare, inadequate, deficient, undetailed, indefinite, non-specific, general, broad, loose, vague: The police have only a meagre description to go on. 4 unfruitful, infertile, barren, deficient, poor, unproductive: This land is too meagre to provide the people with a living.
mean adj. 1 stingy, miserly, tight, close, cheap, parsimonious, penurious, stinting, niggardly, penny-pinching, tight-fisted, close-fisted, mercenary, uncharitable, ungenerous, mean-spirited, unaccommodating, small, petty, Colloq near, money-grubbing, measly, Brit mingy: He is far too mean to buy anyone a Christmas present. It seems rather a mean contribution to the fund, given his wealth. 2 lowly, low, base, inferior, abject, menial, servile, degraded, degenerate, undignified, ignoble, plebeian, proletarian, modest, humble, common: He rose to a position of great power in spite of his mean background. 3 disgraceful, run-down, poor, sorry, miserable, scruffy, seedy, scurvy, shabby, squalid, wretched, vile, mangy, sordid, contemptible, dismal, dreary, abysmal: They live in very mean circumstances. 4 unkind, malicious, cruel, unaccommodating, disobliging: It was very mean of you to steal that toy from the baby. 5 cantankerous, churlish, nasty, hostile, ill-tempered, bad-tempered, sour, unpleasant: That mean old lady would never even talk to us. 6 excellent, wonderful, marvellous, great, exceptional, effective, skilful, skilled, Slang far-out, US bad: The saxophonist in that combo is one mean cat.
meaning n. 1 sense, import, content, signification, denotation, message, substance, gist: The meaning of the word 'lucid' is clear. 2 purport, implication, drift, spirit, connotation, significance, intention: You understand my meaning, so I need not explain. 3 interpretation, explanation: What is the meaning of my dream about being attacked by my philodendron?
measly adj. sparse, scant, scanty, meagre, paltry, pathetic, skimpy, puny, piddling, miserly, niggardly, miserable, beggarly, stingy, Colloq Brit mingy: 'Nouvelle cuisine' is the name given to a restaurateur's design to serve decorative, but measly, portions.
meat n. 1 flesh; food, nourishment, sustenance, viands, victuals, nutriment, provisions, provender, comestibles, edibles, eatables, Colloq eats, chow, grub: She's turned vegetarian and won't touch meat in any form. 2 pith, core, heart, marrow, kernel, vital part, essence, gist, substance, basics, essentials, crux: The sub-plot seems to swamp the real meat of the play.
mediator n. arbitrator, arbiter, referee, umpire, judge, negotiator, intermediary, go-between, middleman, moderator, liaison, intercessor, interceder, conciliator, appeaser, peacemaker: To avoid a lawsuit, they agreed to allow a mediator to settle their differences.
meditate v. 1 reflect, think, muse, ponder, study, ruminate, cogitate, contemplate, cerebrate, be lost in thought, be in a brown study: Please don't interrupt me while I'm meditating. 2 Often, meditate on or upon. consider, contemplate, mull over, reflect on or upon, ponder on or over, chew over, plan, scheme, devise, design, conceive, frame, think up, have in mind: She was meditating revenge, while I was meditating on how to discourage her.
meek adj. 1 modest, humble, submissive, unassuming, unambitious, unpretentious, mild, bland, patient, deferential, shy, retiring, lowly: The meek shall inherit the earth. 2 tame, timid, weak, docile, compliant, submissive, yielding, acquiescent, docile, unaggressive, non-militant, tractable, manageable, subdued, repressed, spiritless, suppressed, broken, Colloq wimpish: The people are meek and will not offer any resistance to such dictatorial government.
melancholy adj. 1 sad, morose, depressed, unhappy, dejected, despondent, blue, downhearted, glum, gloomy, woeful, woebegone, lugubrious, disconsolate, downcast, dispirited, low-spirited, cheerless, crestfallen, chap-fallen, forlorn, heartbroken, mournful, sorrowful, miserable, dismal, Colloq down in the mouth, (down) in the dumps, low: Harold has been melancholy ever since Lucy left. --n. 2 sadness, sorrow, misery, woe, gloom, unhappiness, blues, moroseness, depression, dejection, dejectedness, despondence, despondency, downheartedness, glumness, gloominess, woefulness, lugubriousness, disconsolateness, dispiritedness, cheerlessness, mournfulness, sorrowfulness, miserableness, dolour, anguish: Getting Harold's mind off his problems may relieve his melancholy.
melody n. 1 song, tune, air, strain, measure, theme, refrain: Isn't that the melody from Mimi's aria in La Bohme ? 2 tunefulness, melodiousness, euphoniousness, euphony, harmony, musicality, sweetness: The older music seems to be marked by so much more melody than rock 'n' roll.
memoir n. 1 account, report, reportage, narrative, essay, dissertation, disquisition, paper, journal, record, biography, life: They found her memoir about life in the jungle very exciting. 2 memoirs. autobiography, reminiscences, recollections, memories, diary, confessions, letters, life story; annals, history, account(s), record(s), chronology: She was reading the memoirs of Henry Kissinger.
memorialize v. honour, commemorate, pay homage or respect or tribute to, remember, eulogize, celebrate, mark: His life, devoted to botany, is memorialized in these beautiful gardens.
menacing adj. threatening, looming, impending, ominous, frightening, terrifying, intimidating, minacious, minatory or minatorial, louring or lowering; dangerous, perilous, hazardous, risky, chancy: Menacing storm clouds scudded across the darkening sky.
mentality n. 1 intelligence, brain, capacity, intellect, wit, sense, judgement, acuity, acumen, IQ, rationality, understanding: I'd say that Frank is a man of average mentality. 2 inclination, attitude, bent, mind-set, disposition, frame of mind, temperament, outlook, view: The news betrays little about what is actually happening, but much about the mentality of the leadership. They criticized Britain's 'island mentality'.
merchandise n. 1 goods, commodities, products, stock, staples, produce: The merchandise you ordered was shipped yesterday. --v. 2 trade, deal in, traffic in, market, distribute, retail, (buy and) sell, promote, advertise: We are merchandising the new product line via direct mail.
mercy n. compassion, pity, forbearance, quarter, tolerance, sympathy, favour, forgiveness, kindness, kindliness, leniency, tenderness, humanity, humaneness, liberality, kind-heartedness, tender-heartedness, soft-heartedness, graciousness, generosity, magnanimity, benignity, beneficence, charity, thoughtfulness, consideration, indulgence: May the Lord have mercy on your soul. We could expect no mercy from that slave-driver.
merger n. combination, coalescence, union, merging, amalgamation, consolidation, coalition, pooling, blending, mixing, mingling, commingling, fusing, fusion: A merger of the two firms might result in a monopoly.
merry adj. 1 cheerful, happy, gay, cheery, jolly, jovial, in high or good spirits, mirthful, joyful, joyous, hilarious, jubilant, rejoicing, festive, exhilarating, exuberant, vivacious, convivial, buoyant, gleeful, blithe, blithesome, carefree, light-hearted, delighted: Didn't we have a merry old time at the Christmas party! 2 make merry. revel, celebrate, carouse, frolic: The guests made merry till the wee hours of the morning.
messenger n. envoy, emissary, legate, nuncio, intermediary, go-between; page, errand-boy, errand-girl, messenger-boy, messenger-girl, courier, runner, dispatch-rider, Pheidippides, Mercury, Hermes; herald, harbinger; Colloq US gofer: If you don't like the message, don't take it out on the messenger.
mete v. Usually, mete out. deal (out), apportion, distribute, dole (out), allot, assign, allocate, parcel out, share (out), ration (out), measure out, dispense, hand out, give out, pass out, Colloq dish out: Punishment was meted out to those who deserved it.
meticulous adj. careful, precise, accurate, exact, fastidious, scrupulous, thorough, particular, painstaking, punctilious, fussy, finicky, demanding, strict, critical, exacting, perfectionist: His work is noted for its meticulous attention to detail.
middle adj. 1 central, centre, halfway, mid, midway, mean, medial, Technical mesial: We had reached the middle stage of our journey. Her index finger and middle finger are almost exactly the same length. --n. 2 centre, mid-point, midst, halfway point; heart, bull's-eye: He lives in the middle of the city. The arrow found the very middle of the target. 3 midriff, waist, mid-section, stomach: She wore a red sash round her middle.
mighty adj. 1 powerful, strong, potent, influential, dominant, predominant, ascendant, weighty, doughty, authoritarian, autocratic, indomitable: The pen is mightier than the sword. He should have thought twice before challenging such a mighty opponent. 2 strong, muscular, powerful, robust, strapping, sturdy, brawny, burly, well-built, able-bodied, hardy, Colloq husky, hefty: The smith a mighty man was he, With large and sinewy hands. 3 big, large, huge, grand, great, enormous, gigantic, tremendous, towering, monumental, prodigious, massive, bulky: The giant plucked a mighty tree from the earth and flung it across the sea. --adv. 4 very, extremely: It was mighty nice of you to visit me here in the Ozarks.
milieu n. environment, climate, surroundings, environs, background, ambience or ambiance, sphere, setting, atmosphere, medium, element, precincts: The British Library was the perfect milieu in which to pursue his research and writing.
milk v. drain, bleed, extract, tap, exploit, wring, draw off or out, withdraw: The comic milked the joke for yet another laugh. The taxman is milking me dry.
mincing adj. effeminate, dainty, delicate, niminy-piminy, foppish, dandyish, over-dainty, affected, put-on, pretentious, precious, Brit twee, Colloq la-di-da or lah-di-dah or la-de-da: His mincing speech sets my teeth on edge.
mindless adj. 1 stupid, asinine, thick, thickheaded, obtuse, idiotic, imbecilic, moronic, thoughtless, witless, senseless, brainless, feeble-minded, fatuous, addle-brained, addle-pated, feather-brained, Colloq Brit gormless: Many of the programmes on television are mindless twaddle. 2 inattentive, unthinking, thoughtless, unaware: He plunged into the pool, mindless of any of the perils that awaited him.
minimal adj. least, smallest, minutest, littlest, tiniest, slightest; minimum, nominal, token: As a house plant, the cactus requires minimal attention. There is a minimal charge for service.
ministry n. 1 priesthood, sacred calling, the church, the pulpit, the cloth; religion, holy orders: Burt retired from the ministry to write tracts. 2 clergy, clergymen or clergywomen, clericals, the cloth, church elders or elders of the church: During his regime, the ministry exercised great influence on the government. 3 department, office, bureau, agency: Military affairs are the responsibility of the Ministry of Defence.
minute n. 1 instant, second, split second, flash, moment, before you can say 'Jack Robinson', blink or wink or twinkling of an eye, coup d'oeil, trice, Colloq one sec, two secs, bat of an eye, shake, jiffy, tick, Brit half a mo, two shakes (of a lamb's tail): I'll be with you in a minute. 2 minutes. log, record, journal, transcript, notes, summary, rsum, proceedings, transactions, memorandum: Have you the minutes of the last meeting? 3 up to the minute. latest, newest, modern, up to date, trendy, fashionable, smart, all the rage, in vogue, stylish, in style, in fashion, la mode, Colloq in, with it, hep or hip, hot, cool, US now: She always wears the most up-to-the-minute clothes. --v. 4 record, transcribe, take down, write down, note, make (a) note of, document, log: We need someone to minute the meeting.
mirror n. 1 looking-glass, glass, speculum, reflector: She stared at her reflection in the mirror, wondering whether she should grow her hair. 2 reflection, reproduction, picture, representation, replication, (mirror) image: Language is the mirror of society, reflecting every social change. --v. 3 reflect, reproduce, represent, depict, repeat, echo, send back: The calm lake mirrored the moonlight. The people's misery was mirrored in their faces.
misanthropic adj. man-hating; antisocial, unsocial, unfriendly, egocentric, egoistic: In his misanthropic moods, Joel disdains human company.
miscalculate v. misjudge, err, misevaluate, misestimate, misreckon, miscompute, miscount, misappreciate, misread; underestimate, undervalue, underrate; overestimate, overvalue, overrate: She miscalculated the effect of her resignation.
miscellany n. mixture, assortment, variety, medley, diversity, mixed bag, job lot, rag-bag, mlange, pot-pourri, gallimaufry, motley, hotchpotch or US and Canadian hodgepodge, salmagundi, olio, olla podrida, smorgasbord or smrgsbord, odds and ends, omnium gatherum, hash, mess, Brit lucky dip, jumble, US grab-bag: A miscellany of household goods was contributed for the jumble sale.
misconception n. false or wrong notion or idea, misunderstanding, misconstruction, misconstrual, misjudgement, miscalculation, misapprehension, mistaken belief, error, mistake, delusion: The confused wording of the warranty could result in a misconception of one's rights.
miser n. skinflint, hoarder, niggard, penny-pincher, pinchpenny, cheese-parer, Scrooge, Colloq cheapskate, US tightwad: For that old miser, charity begins and ends at home.
misfire v. 1 fail, abort, miscarry, go wrong, fizzle (out), fall through, Colloq flop, come a cropper, Brit go phut, US go pfft or phft: The plan to take over the conglomerate misfired when the shares soared in price. --n. 2 miscarriage, failure, fizzle, dud, Colloq abort, flop: After two misfires, we gave up trying to buy a time-share in the Algarve.
misguided adj. misled, wrong, misdirected, foolish, unreasonable, erroneous, mistaken, misplaced, imprudent, unwise, impolitic, ill-advised, fallacious, uncalled-for, labouring under a misapprehension, wide of the mark, Colloq off (the mark), barking up the wrong tree: Her helpfulness is often misguided, ending in disaster for all concerned.
misinformation n. disinformation, misintelligence; red herring, false trail, false scent: When we uncover an enemy agent in our midst, we allow him to collect misinformation.
mismatched adj. mismated, ill-matched, ill-mated, incompatible, unfit, inappropriate, unsuited, unsuitable, incongruous, misallied, disparate, uncongenial, inconsistent, inharmonious, discordant: With her interest in art and his in football, they made a mismatched pair.
miss n. Ms., girl, lass, lassie, maid, maiden, young lady, young woman, schoolgirl, mademoiselle, nymphet, teenager, virgin, spinster, old maid, Brit bachelor girl, Irish English colleen, Literary nymph, Archaic demoiselle, damsel, Colloq old-fashioned gal, US coed, Valley girl, bachelorette, Slang teeny-bopper, groupie, Chiefly Brit bird, Old-fashioned US bobby-soxer: She's a pretty young miss, isn't she?
missionary n. evangelist, preacher, minister, proselytizer: During the 19th century, many missionaries were dispatched to spread the faith in Africa.
misstep n. 1 false step, blunder, mistake, error, bad or wrong or false move, trip, stumble, slip: One misstep meant a fall into the abyss. 2 indiscretion, mistake, lapse, faux pas, oversight, error, gaffe, Colloq slip-up, Slang howler, Brit bloomer, US and Canadian blooper, goof: Her misstep was telling her fianc's mother that she had formerly been an artist's model.
mistreat v. abuse, maltreat, ill-use, ill-treat, misuse, damage, manhandle, harm; hurt, injure, molest, maul, rough up, brutalize: He was found guilty of mistreating his dogs. She was mistreated by her husband for years.
misty adj. cloudy, foggy, hazy, murky; fuzzy, dim, blurred, blurry, unclear, indistinct, vague, dark, opaque, shadowy, obscure, unintelligible: It is very misty, so drive carefully. I have only the mistiest idea of what you mean.
mitigate v. moderate, temper, reduce, abate, lessen, decrease, relieve, ease, ease up (on), relax, alleviate, remit, assuage, allay, let up (on), slacken, slacken up (on), tone down, lighten, appease, palliate, mollify, calm, tranquillize, soothe, placate, quiet or chiefly Brit quieten, still, soften, dull, blunt, take the edge off, US lighten up (on): The pain was mitigated by taking aspirin. The relief organizations did their best to mitigate the effects of the disaster.
mixture n. 1 assortment, amalgam, amalgamation, medley, combination, mingling, intermingling, composite, blend, jumble, mix, miscellany, mlange, mess, mishmash, hotchpotch or US and Canadian hodgepodge, gallimaufry, farrago, olio, olla podrida, hash, pot-pourri, ragout, goulash, omnium gatherum, salmagundi: The design is an unfortunate mixture of many incompatible styles. 2 mixing, amalgamation, amalgamating, combining, mingling, intermingling, combination, blend, blending, association, associating, compound, compounding, synthesis, interweaving, merging, merger, fusion, fusing, alloy, alloying: The mixture of household ammonia and bleach creates noxious fumes.
mobbed adj. crowded, packed, thronged, congested, teeming, swarming, full, filled: They tried to leave by the emergency exit, but that was mobbed, too.
mode n. 1 way, manner, method, approach, form, course, fashion, procedure, technique, system, wise, modus operandi, methodology, standard operating procedure, SOP: What mode of teaching foreign languages do you use? 2 status, condition, state, configuration, set-up: The computer is now in printing mode.
moderately adv. somewhat, rather, quite, fairly, pretty, comparatively, slightly, passably, more or less; to some extent, within reason, to a certain extent, to a degree, to some degree, in some measure, in moderation, within limits; temperately; Colloq sort of, kind of: Clifford is moderately well off. It was a moderately hot day.
modest adj. 1 unassuming, unpresuming, humble, unpretentious, unobtrusive, reserved, retiring, diffident, shy, bashful, demure, coy, shame-faced, self-effacing, self-conscious, reticent, reluctant, timid, meek, timorous, Rare verecund: Caroline is quite modest about her accomplishments. 2 humble, simple, plain, ordinary, unpretentious, homely, lowly, unexceptional, unostentatious; inconspicuous, unobtrusive: They live in a modest little cottage. 3 moderate, limited, understated, unimportunate, unexaggerated, reasonable, sensible, constrained, restricted, restrained: The workers' demands seem modest enough.
mogul n. magnate, tycoon, baron, mandarin, Colloq big shot, big gun, big cheese, Pooh Bah, bigwig, big wheel, big (White) Chief, big Daddy, hotshot, VIP, big noise, nabob, Slang US Mr Big: In the old days, he was one of the moguls in Hollywood.
momentous adj. important, weighty, consequential, significant, grave, serious, decisive, crucial, critical, vital, pivotal, portentous, charged, laden, fraught, of concern: The Augustan Age was a momentous period in Latin literature.
monastery n. abbey, cloister, priory, friary, charterhouse, hospice, Buddhism vihara, Hinduism ashram, Tibetan Buddhism lamasery: In later life he retired to a monastery to contemplate the world.
monitor n. 1 watchdog, supervisor, sentinel, guard, guardian, custodian; Brit invigilator, prefect, Rare prepositor or praepostor; US proctor: The government has appointed a committee to monitor oil prices. 2 (television) screen, cathode-ray tube screen, CRT, display, Chiefly Brit visual display unit, VDU: Do you prefer an amber, green, or black-and-white monitor? --v. 3 watch, oversee, observe, check (out or up on), audit, supervise, superintend, scan, examine, study, follow, keep an eye on, survey, keep track of, track, trace, record, Brit vet: Before a drug is approved, it must be monitored through thousands of tests.
monolithic adj. massive, huge, enormous, monumental, imposing, colossal, gigantic, giant; featureless, uniform, undifferentiated, characterless; rigid, impenetrable, invulnerable, unbending, inflexible, solid, stolid, intractable, immovable: These monolithic international conglomerates, assembled with the aid of junk bonds, staffed by yuppies, and controlling markets worth hundreds of billions, resemble the monolithic glass towers that house them.
monstrosity n. 1 See monster, 2, above. 2 monstrousness, heinousness, horribleness, horridness, hideousness, awfulness, nightmarishness, dreadfulness, frightfulness, horror, hellishness, ghoulishness, fiendishness, barbarity: The monstrosity of the concentration camps was not widely known till after the war.
mood n. 1 humour, attitude, inclination, disposition, nature, temper, frame of mind, spirit, atmosphere, sense, feeling: The mood of the people is rebellious. She's in a bad mood. 2 in the mood. ready, willing, eager, keen, (well-)disposed, inclined, sympathetic, minded: I'm not in the mood for a film tonight, but I am in the mood to go dancing.
moor v. secure, tie up, make fast, dock, berth, (drop) anchor; fix: The vessel was soon moored and the passengers disembarked. The huge aerial is moored by cables.
morality n. 1 ethics, morals, ethicalness, moralness, principle(s), mores, integrity, propriety, standards, ideals; honesty, right, rightness, righteousness, rectitude, justice, fair play, fairness, decency, uprightness, integrity: Morality should not be conditioned by expediency. 2 behaviour, conduct, habit(s), custom(s): Are you suggesting that utilitarianism is a guide for morality?
moreover adv. furthermore, further, besides, not only that, more than that, what is more; to boot, into the bargain, in addition, additionally, as well, too: She was pleased that I had brought some wine - it was, moreover, her favourite burgundy.
mortal adj. 1 human; transitory, temporal, transient, ephemeral: It finally dawned on him that the king was mortal, like other men. 2 physical, bodily, corporeal, corporal, fleshly, earthly, worldly, perishable: Her mortal remains are buried at Bognor Regis. 3 deadly, fatal, lethal, terminal, destructive, disastrous: The admiral lay dying from a mortal wound. 4 relentless, implacable, unrelenting, bitter, sworn, deadly, unremitting, unappeasable, unceasing: Halifax was the mortal enemy of despotism. 5 abject, extreme, awful, great, enormous, intense, terrible, inordinate, dire: Giles lived in mortal fear of offending his mother. --n. 6 human (being), man, woman, person, soul, individual, creature, earthling: The novel depicts a lifestyle far removed from that of ordinary mortals. We mortals have nothing to fear from intergalactic aliens.
motion n. 1 movement, moving, change, shift, shifting, action, going, travelling, travel, progress, passage, transit; activity, commotion, stir, agitation, turmoil, turbulence: One could barely sense the slow motion of the train. The leaves of the aspen appear to be in constant motion. 2 mobility, movability, motility: I could feel the motion gradually returning to my numbed limbs. 3 gait, bearing, carriage, tread, walk, step: The machine works with alternate upward and downward motions. 4 gesture, gesticulation, signal, sign: She made a motion for me to come nearer. 5 proposal, suggestion, proposition, recommendation, offering, submission: A motion must be seconded by a member in good standing. --v. 6 gesture, gesticulate, beckon, signal, sign, wave: The cashier motioned to me and I went over to the window.
motto n. maxim, proverb, saying, adage, saw, aphorism, apophthegm or apothegm, gnome, slogan, byword, catchword, battle-cry, guide, moral, principle, rule, precept: The motto of the Order of the Garter is Honi soit qui mal y pense, 'Shame on whoever thinks ill of it'.
mouldy adj. aged, ancient, outdated, old-fashioned, antediluvian, unused, stale, decayed, decaying, carious, mildewed, mouldering, musty; spoilt or spoiled, rotten, rotting, putrid, putrescent, putrefying, rancid, rank, decomposed, decomposing, mucid: Digging about in the files, he unearthed some mouldy old plans of the house. All the food in the fridge had gone mouldy while they were away.
mountainous adj. 1 craggy, alpine, Himalayan: It was very slow going through the mountainous parts of the country. 2 huge, towering, high, steep, enormous, immense, formidable, mighty, monumental, prodigious, staggering: Their tiny craft was almost engulfed by the mountainous seas.
mousy adj. 1 mousey, mouse-coloured, dun, grey, greyish-brown, brownish-grey, brownish, brown, dull, lustreless, lacklustre, drab, flat, plain, colourless: Her lank, mousy hair hung down over her shoulders. 2 timid, cowering, timorous, shy, self-effacing, diffident: Adrian is far too mousy to ask for an increase in salary.
movable adj. moveable, floating, variable, changeable, unfixed; portable, transportable, transferable or transferrable: Easter Sunday is a movable feast and has no fixed date on the calendar. Recent developments have produced computers that are smaller than an attach case and easily movable.
moving adj. 1 touching, poignant, emotive, affecting, stirring, heart-rending, emotional, telling, effective, impressive, striking, compelling; pathetic, exciting, thrilling, inspiring, inspirational, impelling, persuasive: He related a moving story of his years in various concentration camps. 2 active, mobile, unfixed, unstationary, motile, going, operating, working, in motion, on the move: Be careful not to touch any of the moving parts inside the clock.
muddle v. 1 bewilder, confuse, confound, mystify, baffle, mix up, disorient, befuddle, perplex, bemuse, puzzle, befog: I am totally muddled by your explanation of differential calculus. 2 confuse, mix up, jumble, scramble, entangle, tangle, mess up, disorder, disarrange, disorganize, bungle, mismanage, Colloq muff: My financial affairs got hopelessly muddled when I changed banks. 3 muddle through. (barely) manage, cope, make it, scrape through or along, contrive, make do, get by, get along: We were just muddling through when James was offered this wonderful job. --n. 4 mess, confusion, mix-up, jumble, tangle, disorder, hotchpotch or US also hodgepodge, mishmash, chaos, disaster, Colloq stew, Slang US screw-up, snafu, Taboo slang Brit balls-up: A lot of muddles, mix-ups, and misunderstandings ensued.
mug n. 1 jug, tankard, stein, toby (jug), pot, beaker, cup: The relief workers passed round mugs of hot coffee to the homeless. 2 face, visage, features, countenance, Slang puss, kisser, mush, Brit clock, dial, Archaic phiz or phizog, US pan: The ex-boxer has a mug that only a mother could love. 3 fool, duffer, simpleton, dupe, gull, innocent, Colloq chump, mark, soft or easy touch, Brit muggins, Slang sucker: The mug thought he had found a full wallet. --v. 4 make a face or faces, grimace: Here are some pictures of the twins mugging for the camera. 5 attack, set upon, rob, assault; garrotte, throttle: Anyone who walks through the park at night risks getting mugged. 6 mug up (on). study, Formal lucubrate, Colloq cram, burn the midnight oil, get up (on), Brit swot, bone up (on): I have to mug up on my Latin for tomorrow's examination.
mumble v. murmur, mutter, say inarticulately, utter indistinctly, swallow one's words: He mumbled the name of the person who had shot him, but she didn't catch it.
municipality n. city, metropolis, town, village, borough, district, township; suburb, exurb: The recreational facilities offered by the municipality are in need of refurbishing.
murky adj. dark, gloomy, threatening, dim, clouded, cloudy, overcast, grey, dismal, dreary, bleak, sombre, grim, funereal, shady, shadowy: I could barely make out her face in the murky corner of the chapel.
mushy adj. 1 soft, pulpy, squashy, doughy, squidgy, spongy; swampy, boggy, miry; Colloq squishy, squushy, squashy: The peach was overripe and mushy. The bottom of the pond is all mushy and feels awful when you stand up. 2 mawkish, maudlin, sentimental, romantic, saccharine, sugary, syrupy, Colloq corny, sloppy, gooey, slushy, Brit wet, Slang schmaltzy: She cried three handkerchiefs-full over the mushy parts of Gone With The Wind .
musty adj. 1 mouldy, damp, mildewed, mildewy, sour, rancid, spoilt, decayed, rotten, putrid, fetid or foetid, fusty, stale: Open the windows to get rid of that musty odour. 2 stale, old-fashioned, antiquated, antediluvian, ancient, out of date, bygone, pass, old hat, obsolete, archaic, tired, hoary, worn out, trite, clichd, stereotypical: I've heard all those musty jokes of his a thousand times before.
mutinous adj. 1 rebellious, revolutionary, subversive, seditious, insurgent, insurrectionary: The mutinous crew was finally subdued and clapped in irons. 2 recalcitrant, refractory, contumacious, obstinate, defiant, insubordinate, disobedient, unruly, unmanageable, ungovernable, uncontrollable: Whenever we told Clare to work harder at school she became mutinous.
mysterious adj. 1 puzzling, enigmatic, baffling, insoluble, unsolvable, bewildering, confounding, confusing, perplexing, mystifying, weird, bizarre, strange, uncanny, curious: A mysterious force makes the saucer rise off the ground and fly at incredible speeds. 2 cryptic, arcane, secret, inscrutable, covert, hidden, furtive, unclear, dark, concealed, occult, inexplicable, incomprehensible, mystic(al), unknown, unfathomable, mystical, recondite, abstruse: It is mysterious how the agency accomplishes its ends.
mystique n. mystery, magic, charisma, aura, inscrutability, supernaturalism, preternaturalism, strangeness: She has a certain mystique about her.
nag v. 1 Sometimes, nag at. annoy, irritate, irk, pester, criticize, ride, scold, carp (at), upbraid, badger, harass, harry, vex, henpeck, torment, hector, pick at, goad, pick on, find fault with, berate, nettle, bully, provoke, plague, worry, bother, Brit chivvy or chivy or chevy, Colloq needle: He nags her day and night about going on a diet. --n. 2 scold, harpy, pest, shrew, virago, termagant, fishwife: You certainly can be a terrible nag, can't you?
nave adj. naive or naf, ingenuous, innocent, credulous, childlike, born yesterday, unaffected, unsophisticated, inexperienced, green, unworldly, unsuspecting, unenlightened, unsuspicious, trusting, trustful, gullible, artless, guileless, simple, simplistic, simple-minded, unpretentious, unpretending, candid, natural: Is Chatterley nave enough to believe that the gamekeeper's meetings with his wife were to discuss fox-hunting?
nameless adj. 1 unnamed, innominate, unidentified, anonymous, pseudonymous, incognito, unknown, unheard-of, unsung: How much we owe the nameless inventor of the wheel! 2 inexpressible, indefinable, unidentifiable, unspecified, unspecifiable: A nameless dread seized him as he entered the cave. 3 ineffable, unutterable, unspeakable, unmentionable, abominable, horrible, indescribable, repulsive: Paganism allowed man to sink beneath a flood of nameless sensualities.
narcotic adj. 1 soporific, stuporific, hypnotic, sedative, somnolent, sleep-inducing, opiate, dulling, numbing, anaesthetic, stupefacient, stupefying, stupefactive, tranquillizing, Lethean: Most narcotic drugs may be sold only with a doctor's prescription. --n. 2 drug, soporific, stuporific, hypnotic, sedative, opiate, anaesthetic, stupefacient, tranquillizer: Many doctors are reluctant to prescribe narcotics.
narrator n. reporter, storyteller, raconteur, taleteller, teller of tales, anecdotist or anecdotalist, relator, annalist, chronicler, describer, author; voice-over: We sat spellbound waiting for the narrator to continue.
nasty adj. 1 foul, filthy, dirty, unclean, offensive, disgusting, nauseating, revolting, horrible, loathsome, repugnant, repellent, vile, odious, obnoxious, objectionable, nauseous, sickening, vomit-provoking, fetid or foetid, noisome, mephitic, rank, malodorous, rancid, noxious: The nasty stench of rotting vegetation assailed our nostrils. 2 unpleasant, disagreeable, unsavoury, painful, objectionable, annoying, untoward, awkward, difficult, bad, serious: Lord Petherbridge had some very nasty experiences in the war. 3 obscene, dirty, pornographic, blue, smutty, lewd, vulgar, sordid, indecent, licentious, gross, coarse, crude, rude, ribald, bawdy, risqu, off colour, suggestive, Colloq X-rated, raunchy: The shops are selling some rather nasty videos that I don't want the children to watch. 4 unpleasant, disagreeable, ugly, bad-tempered, vicious, currish, surly, abusive, spiteful, irascible, ill-natured, ill-tempered, cruel, inconsiderate, rude, churlish, obnoxious, crotchety, curmudgeonly, cantankerous, crabbed, cranky, US and Canadian mean: Why is your father so nasty to everyone who wants to go out with you? 5 bad, severe, acute, painful, serious; dangerous, critical: I got a nasty shock when I opened the cupboard door. That's a nasty wound you have there.
nationality n. 1 citizenship: Some countries allow their citizens dual nationality. 2 race, nation, ethnic group, ethnos, clan, tribe; strain, stock, pedigree, heritage, roots, extraction, bloodline, breed: The country became a melting-pot of myriad nationalities.
nature n. 1 quality, properties, features, character, personality, make-up, essence, constitution, identity, attributes, disposition, temperament, complexion: Only detailed analysis will reveal the nature of this compound. It is not in his nature to be envious. 2 universe, cosmos, world, creation, environment: Science fiction deals with phenomena and contrivances that defy the laws of nature. 3 scenery, countryside, wildness, primitiveness, simplicity: I often enjoyed sitting by the river, communing with nature. 4 kind, variety, description, sort, class, category, type, genre, species; stamp, cast, mould, feather, kidney, colour, stripe: The duties of the position are largely of a ceremonial nature. 5 by nature. See naturally, 2, above.
nauseated adj. sickened, disgusted, repelled, revolted, offended, sick (to one's stomach), queasy, squeamish; seasick, carsick, airsick: They were nauseated when they saw the cadavers. I became nauseated by the rocking of the boat.
navigable adj. 1 passable, traversable, negotiable, unblocked, unobstructed, clear: The Thames is not navigable above Lechlade. 2 manoeuvrable, sailable, controllable, steerable, yare: My boat is navigable when under way at about four knots.
navy n. fleet, flotilla, naval force(s), armada, Literary argosy: The entire navy sailed across the Channel to Le Havre.
near-sighted adj. 1 myopic, short-sighted: Being near-sighted, I must wear spectacles for driving. 2 Chiefly US short-sighted, narrow-minded, blinkered, narrow, close-minded, illiberal, unthinking, heedless, insular, partial, one-sided, parochial, unsophisticated, unimaginative, biased, unobjective, opinionated, dogmatic, prejudiced, intolerant, bigoted: They maintain a near-sighted attitude towards associating with anyone outside their immediate clique.
necessary adj. 1 indispensable, essential, required, needed, compulsory, requisite, vital, demanded, imperative, obligatory, needful, of the essence, important, of the utmost importance, top-priority, high-priority, urgent, exigent, compelling, life-and-death or life-or-death: A good diet is necessary for good health. It is necessary that you come at once. Take the necessary steps to get the job done. 2 inevitable, unavoidable, inescapable, ineluctable: In the circumstances, we find it necessary to ask for your resignation. 3 sure, certain, predetermined, predestined, fated, inexorable; resulting, resultant: The necessary outcome of the affair was that the child was returned to her natural parents. --n. 4 See necessity, 1, below.
needy adj. poor, indigent, poverty-stricken, destitute, impoverished, penniless, impecunious, necessitous, underprivileged, deprived, disadvantaged, below the poverty level, in dire straits, in or on the way to the poorhouse, in reduced circumstances, down-and-out, insolvent, Colloq on one's uppers, dead or flat or stony-broke, hard up, strapped, pinched, on the breadline, up against it, Brit on the dole, US dead broke, on welfare, on relief: It is not enough to look after needy families only at Christmas time.
negligible adj. insignificant, minor, unimportant, trifling, trivial, inconsequential, piddling, inappreciable, small, slight, paltry, nugatory, worthless, petty, niggling, not worth mentioning or talking about: The differences between the two plans are negligible.
neighbourhood n. 1 locality, area, region, vicinity, vicinage, environs, quarter, district, precinct(s), purlieus, locale; surroundings, confines: Houses in the neighbourhood of the blast were levelled. 2 in the neighbourhood of. approximately, about, around, nearly, practically, close to, almost, more or less, Colloq in the ballpark of, in the region of, Brit getting on for, not far off, US within an eyelash of, Slang as near as dammit to: The playground will cost in the neighbourhood of 5,000.
nerve n. 1 courage, coolness, boldness, bravery, intrepidity, determination, valour, daring, fearlessness, dauntlessness, pluck, mettle, spirit, fortitude, will, tenacity, steadfastness, staunchness, firmness, doughtiness, resoluteness, Colloq guts, grit, gumption, spunk, US sand, Brit bottle, US moxie , Taboo slang balls: It took a lot of nerve to go back into that burning building. 2 effrontery, brazenness, gall, impertinence, brass, impudence, insolence, audacity, brashness, presumption, presumptuousness, temerity, Colloq cheek, sauce, chutzpah, Slang crust: You have a lot of nerve, talking to your mother that way! 3 get on someone's nerves. annoy, irritate, upset: That loud rock music gets on my nerves. 4 nerves. tension, nervousness, hysteria, anxiety, fretfulness, stress, worry, apprehension, fright, Colloq the jitters, Slang the willies, the heebie-jeebies, US the whim-whams: I had a bad case of nerves before learning the doctor's diagnosis.
nestle v. cuddle (up), snuggle (up), huddle, curl up, nuzzle (up): They nestled close together to keep warm.
neuter adj. 1 asexual, sexless, epicene: Worker bees are neuter, neither male nor female. --v. 2 desex or desexualize, doctor; castrate, emasculate, geld, capon or caponize, eunuchize; spay, ovariectomize, oophorectomize; Colloq fix, cut, US alter: We had our cat neutered after her first litter.
nevertheless adv. still, notwithstanding, yet, in spite of that, despite that, nonetheless, regardless, be that as it may, for all that, even so, but, however, just or all the same, everything considered, at any rate, anyway, in any case, in any event, at all events, Literary withal: He said he dislikes sweets; nevertheless, he ate a whole bar of chocolate.
nice adj. 1 pleasant, agreeable, amiable, amicable, friendly, cordial, warm, gracious, warm-hearted, kind, kindly, outgoing, charming, genial, delightful, courteous, polite, refined, gentlemanly, ladylike, winsome, likeable, attractive: They are one of the nicest couples I have ever met. 2 good, satisfactory, commendable, worthy, worthwhile: The manager said that I had done a nice job in preparing the specifications. 3 good, fine, superb, superior, attentive, sharp, acute, keen, careful, exact, exacting, rigorous; precise, accurate, unerring, scrupulous, meticulous, punctilious, discriminating, discriminative, perceptive, delicate, fastidious, flawless, faultless, subtle, strict, close, small, slight, minute, complex, complicated, intricate: A diamond cutter must have a nice eye for detail. It is difficult to maintain nice distinctions of meaning among certain words, given that people are so careless with their speech these days. 4 delicate, subtle, sensitive, exquisite, hair-splitting, over-nice, fine, critical, ticklish, dangerous, precarious, perilous, Colloq hairy: The matter of Hong Kong requires some nice political negotiations. 5 trim, well turned out, tidy, neat, fine: Don't you want to look nice for your birthday party? 6 nice and pleasantly, delightfully, pleasingly, agreeably, enjoyably, gratifyingly, satisfyingly, comfortably: It's nice and warm by the fire.
nifty adj. 1 smart, stylish, modish, chic, spruce: I borrowed a nifty outfit from Grandma for the flapper's costume ball. 2 healthy, in good form, spry, energetic, agile, quick: I'm not as nifty as I was in 1950. 3 excellent, neat, great, splendid, fine, clever, skilful, apt, suitable: Having a picnic was a nifty idea. That was as nifty a bit of bargaining as I 've ever seen. 4 satisfactory, satisfying, good, profitable, substantial, considerable: He made a nifty profit on the sale of his house in Chelsea.
nightly adj. 1 every night, each night, each and every night, night after night: The watchman does his nightly rounds. 2 night-time, nocturnal, bedtime: A nightly glass of warm milk promotes sound sleep. --adv. 3 every night, each night, nights, after dark, after sunset; nocturnally: The bird sings nightly outside my window.
nip v. 1 bite, nibble; pinch, snip, clip, cut, snap, tweak, twitch, trim, lop, crop, shear; grip, squeeze: The dog nipped the postman's ankle. Nip off the suckers to promote healthy growth of the tomatoes. 2 nip in the bud. stop, arrest, check, thwart, frustrate, stymie, forestall; quash, squelch, suppress, extinguish, put down: The revolt of the army officers was nipped in the bud. --n. 3 bite, nibble, morsel, pinch, snip: The deer had taken nips off the tips of the shrubbery. 4 chill, coldness, iciness, sharpness, tang, bite: There's a definite wintry nip in the air tonight.
nod v. 1 greet, acknowledge, recognize: The matre d'htel nodded to me as I entered the restaurant. 2 say yes; consent, assent, agree, concur, acquiesce: Asked if she had seen Nick, the barmaid nodded. I asked permission to leave the room and the teacher nodded. 3 doze (off), nap, drowse, drop off, fall asleep: Exhausted travellers nodded in their chairs waiting for their flights to be announced. 4 slip (up), err, make a mistake, be mistaken or wrong; be careless or negligent or lax or inattentive: Sometimes, even Homer nods. --n. 5 signal, sign, cue, indication, gesture: I saw him give a nod to the barber, who suddenly held a cutthroat razor to my throat. 6 approval; consent, acquiescence, concurrence, assent, agreement, Colloq OK or okay: The company has given me the nod to open an office in Acapulco.
noisy adj. loud, deafening, ear-splitting, jarring, grating, harsh, piercing, shrill, discordant, unmusical, dissonant, cacophonous or cacophonic, resounding, clarion, clamorous, clangorous, thunderous, uproarious, blaring, blasting, obstreperous, vociferous, boisterous, tumultuous, riotous: I could hear nothing over the noisy aeroplane engines. When she arose to speak, the noisy crowd fell silent.
non-aligned adj. uncommitted, non-allied, non-affiliated, unaligned, unaffiliated, unallied; neutral, impartial: There are several non-aligned nations that remain independent of the influence of the superpowers.
non-completion n. non-fulfilment, unfulfilment, non-performance, incompleteness, deficiency: We regret the non-completion of the work on your house and will refund in full the amount already paid.
none pron. no one, not anyone, nobody, no person; not one; not any; nil: Of all the people I met, none impressed me more than Kathy. I'd give you a sweet if I had one, but I have none. I'd even give you money, but I have none.
non-existent adj. unreal, imaginary, imagined, fictional, fictive, fanciful, fancied, mythical, fabulous, fabled, illusory, chimerical, delusive: Although the entire Graeco-Roman pantheon became non-existent overnight, its gods and goddesses continue to pervade our culture.
non-partisan adj. 1 non-partizan, non-aligned, unaligned, unaffiliated, independent, non-committed, uncommitted, neutral, uninvolved, free, (sitting) on the fence: Choose between non-partisan and coalition candidates. 2 impartial, even-handed, fair, just, objective, unbiased, unprejudiced, equitable, dispassionate, disinterested: One could not find a more non-partisan judge than Sir Ronald. --n. 3 independent, neutral, mugwump: I am a non-partisan on the subject of privatization of public utilities.
nonsensical adj. senseless, meaningless, absurd, ridiculous, ludicrous, laughable, preposterous, irrational, warped, askew, crazy, mad, silly, foolish, hare-brained, asinine, idiotic, moronic, imbecilic, stupid, dumb, Colloq nutty, screwy, cock-eyed, fool, screwball, Slang loony: What is your nonsensical excuse for being late this time?
norm n. 1 usual, average, mean, normal: The norm for the day is 12 degrees Celsius. 2 model, standard, type, pattern, criterion, rule, measure, gauge, yardstick, benchmark: That style of window became the norm for many years.
notable adj. 1 noteworthy, noted, famous, famed, well-known, renowned, illustrious, important, prominent, eminent, outstanding, great, distinguished, celebrated, acclaimed: Many notable people attended my college. 2 remarkable, different, distinctive, singular, unusual, uncommon, pre-eminent, peerless, matchless, unmatched, unequalled, unparalleled, extraordinary, conspicuous, outstanding, memorable, unforgettable, striking: She enjoyed a notable reputation as a cellist. Last night's notable performance was enjoyed by a capacity audience. --n. 3 dignitary, personage, worthy, VIP; celebrity, luminary, Colloq (big) name, big shot: Many notables attended the charity ball.
notched adj. serrate(d), sawtooth(ed), crenellate(d), crenate, serriform, pinked, scalloped, zigzag, toothed, dentate, denticulate(d), dentiform: The flower has notched yellow petals. The vase was decorated with a notched pattern.
nothing n. 1 naught or nought, nothing at all or whatsoever, no thing, not anything, Taboo slang Brit bugger-all, (sweet) Fanny Adams or FA, SFA: Nothing that you tell me can be held against you in court. You may think it important, but I tell you it is nothing. 2 cipher, zero, nobody, nonentity: If it weren't for her, he would be nothing. 3 trifle, bagatelle, Colloq peanuts: A million is nothing to him.
notion n. 1 idea, thought, concept, conception, image, impression, general idea, (mental) picture, inkling: She has a pretty good notion of who did it. I haven't the slightest notion of what you are talking about. 2 fancy, whim, crotchet, whimsy, caprice, impulse, inclination, vagary, conceit, quirk, kink: She suddenly took a notion to fly to New York and left.
nourish v. 1 feed, sustain, support, maintain, keep, provide for, care for, take care of, look after, nurture, nurse: The child seems to be thriving and well nourished. 2 foster, cherish, nurse, maintain, harbour, keep, nurture, sustain: Iago nourished a terrible hatred for Othello. 3 strengthen, fortify, encourage, promote, stimulate, cultivate, help, advance, aid: These malcontents continue to nourish trouble in the party ranks.
novice n. beginner, neophyte, newcomer, proselyte, tiro or tyro, noviciate or novitiate, learner, amateur, initiate, apprentice, trainee, probationer, fledgling or Brit also fledgeling, US freshman, Colloq greenhorn, rookie: She is a mere novice at parachuting.
nude adj. unclothed, undressed, uncovered, au naturel, bare, naked, in the nude, stark naked, undraped, without a stitch (on), Colloq in the buff, in the altogether, in one's birthday suit, Brit starkers, Brit and Australian in the nuddy: A nude man streaked across the football pitch.
number n. 1 numeral, integer, figure, digit: The columns of numbers were entered in a neat hand. 2 few, handful, crowd, slew, gang, bunch, party, bevy, covey, troop, company, platoon, swarm, horde, multitude, mob, host, army, mass, hundred, thousand, million, billion; several, many, numbers, legions, US and Canadian slew(s) or slue(s), Colloq loads, tons: A number of people attended the meeting. An enormous number of viruses could fit on the head of a pin. 3 issue; edition, copy: The fourth number of the quarterly is published at the end of the year. --v. 4 count, enumerate, compute, calculate, tally, figure (up), add (up), include, total, tot (up), reckon, sum (up): Who can number the stars?
nutritious adj. healthful, healthy, nutritive, wholesome, life-giving, beneficial, salutary, nourishing, alimentary, nutrimental: Be sure you eat a nutritious breakfast every day.
obedient adj. compliant, dutiful, duteous, observant, respectful, tractable, yielding, conformable, adaptable, agreeable, amenable, acquiescent, submissive, subservient, docile, passive, timid, biddable, pliant: Prunella was always an obedient child. All matter and energy is obedient to the laws of physics.
obey v. 1 comply (with), agree (to), consent (to), submit (to), abide (by), observe, respect, adhere to, follow, conform (to or with), acquiesce (to or in), mind, accept, heed, defer to, yield (to), knuckle under (to), give way (to), surrender (to), succumb (to), give in (to), truckle to, bow to, bend to, take or accept orders from: Unfortunately, Ogilvy has obeyed his baser instincts in making the punishment fit the crime. Everything must obey the laws of nature. Harold obeys Millie's slightest whim. 2 discharge, execute, effect, carry out, fulfil, meet, satisfy, do, perform; serve, act: We obeyed the colonel's orders to the letter. It is your function to command, mine to obey.
objective adj. 1 fair, impartial, just, judicious, equitable, neutral, disinterested, dispassionate, open-handed, open-minded, detached, unbiased, unprejudiced, unbigoted, even-handed, uncoloured, unjaundiced: How can you be objective about the guilt or innocence of your own child? --n. 2 target, goal, object, aim, purpose, end (in view), intent, intention, design, aspiration, ambition, hope: If we capture the flag, we shall have gained our objective. My objective is to win the pentathlon.
obligatory adj. required, demanded, necessary, requisite, compulsory, mandatory; incumbent; indispensable, essential: Has she been able to meet all the obligatory qualifications?
oblique adj. 1 slanting, slanted, sloping, aslant, inclined, diagonal, inclining, angled, angling, canted, canting, banked, banking, cambered, crooked, askew, divergent, diverging, tilted, atilt, tilting: The roof joins the wall at an oblique angle. 2 awry, devious, roundabout, indirect, circuitous, circumlocutionary, evasive, sly, sidelong, offhand, surreptitious, furtive, implied, clandestine, underhand(ed), deceitful, devious, deceptive, false: She made some oblique comments about the candidate's wife.
obnoxious adj. revolting, repulsive, repugnant, disgusting, offensive, objectionable, fulsome, noisome, vile, repellent, nauseous, nauseating, sickening, foul, noxious, mephitic, unsavoury, execrable, abominable, abhorrent, loathsome, detestable, hateful, odious, scurvy, base, obscene, despicable, awful, terrible, unpalatable, distasteful, unlikeable, unpleasant, nasty, Colloq chiefly Brit beastly: Mary's obnoxious sister even has obnoxious table manners.
obsequious adj. low, cringing, toadying, toadyish, sycophantic(al), sycophantish, unctuous, truckling, grovelling, crawling, fawning, deferential, ingratiating, menial, flattering, servile, slavish, subservient, submissive, abject, mealy-mouthed, slimy, Colloq boot-licking, Chiefly Brit smarmy, Taboo slang brown-nosing, Brit arse-kissing, arse-licking, US ass-licking, ass-kissing: He is surrounded with obsequious followers who cater to his every whim.
observation n. 1 watching, examination, scrutiny, inspection, viewing, survey, surveillance; notice, discovery, attention, awareness: The police put the house under 24-hour observation. The smuggled weapon escaped the guard's observation. 2 comment, remark, note, reflection, opinion, sentiment, point of view, impression, feeling, commentary, criticism; utterance, word, announcement, pronouncement, proclamation, declaration: She made a number of trenchant observations concerning life in Britain today.
obsession n. fixed idea, ide fixe, fixation, conviction, preoccupation, prepossession, passion, mania, phobia, Colloq hang-up, thing: Thoughts of death became his constant obsession.
obstacle n. impediment, hindrance, obstruction, hurdle, hitch, catch, snag, stumbling-block, barrier, bar, check: The obstacles in the road prevented our proceeding further. One must often overcome many obstacles before achieving success.
obstruct v. 1 block, bar, check, prevent, stop (up), arrest, halt, clog, make impassable; bring to a standstill: The vein is obstructed by a large blood clot. A clogged drain is obstructing the water. 2 hamper, slow, impede, interfere with, retard, hinder, interrupt, delay, stay, stall: An overturned truck obstructed traffic on the motorway. 3 preclude, prevent, debar, block, prohibit, forbid, stop, stand in the way of: They are manoeuvring to obstruct her from taking over the company.
obtrusive adj. interfering, intrusive, meddling, officious, meddlesome, importunate, forward, presumptuous, forceful, Colloq pushy: She found him somewhat obtrusive - always giving advice when she least needed it.
occasional adj. 1 intermittent, irregular, periodic, random, sporadic, infrequent, casual, incidental: They staged occasional raids on the arsenal. He works as an occasional farm hand. 2 additional, extra, spare, supplementary, incidental, auxiliary, accessory: We bought a few occasional chairs in case we have company. 3 special, particular, ceremonial, ritual: She writes occasional verses for memorial services.
occupation n. 1 job, position, post, situation, appointment, employment, vocation, line (of work), career, field, calling, trade, mtier, craft, skill, profession, business, work: Claverton pursued his occupation as a miniaturist for some fifty years. 2 possession, tenure, occupancy, rule, control, suzerainty, subjugation, subjection, oppression, bondage: Terrible atrocities were committed while the land was under the occupation of the Mongols. 3 conquest, seizure, appropriation, take-over: Francisco Pizarro was responsible for the occupation of Peru.
ocean n. 1 (deep blue) sea, (bounding) main, high seas, the deep, Davy Jones's locker, the depths, Colloq the briny, the drink: The sails filled, and our tiny craft was swept out into the open ocean. 2 Often, oceans. flood, abundance, multitude, profusion, plethora, Colloq scads, loads, tons, lots, oodles, gobs, zillions: The direct mail campaign yielded oceans of responses.
odds n.pl. 1 chances, likelihood, probability: The odds are that Janet will finish the job in time. 2 edge, advantage, lead, superiority: We have won before against greater odds. 3 difference, inequality, disparity, unevenness, discrepancy, dissimilarity, distinction: It makes no odds who you are, you may not go in there. 4 at odds. at variance, at loggerheads, at daggers drawn, at sixes and sevens, at cross purposes, at each other's throats, in disagreement, in opposition, on bad terms, not in keeping, out of line, inharmonious, conflicting, clashing, disagreeing, differing: Teenagers have been at odds with their parents since time immemorial. 5 odds and ends. oddments, fragments, debris, leftovers, leavings, remnants, bits (and pieces), particles, shreds, snippets, scraps, rubbish, litter, Colloq Brit odds and sods: We managed to pack everything into boxes except for a few odds and ends.
off colour adj. 1 unwell, ill, off form, out of sorts, queasy, sick, run down, awful, seedy, Colloq under the weather, poorly, Slang lousy, rotten: I have been feeling off colour since eating that fish. 2 indelicate, risqu, ribald, bawdy, indecent, suggestive, broad, indelicate, inelegant, improper, inappropriate, unseemly, blue: My mother does not tolerate off-colour remarks at the dinner table.
offensive adj. 1 antagonistic, hostile, contentious, quarrelsome, attacking, aggressive, threatening, provocative, combative, martial, belligerent, warlike, bellicose: The minute the enemy made an offensive move, we attacked. 2 insulting, rude, disrespectful, uncivil, insolent, discourteous, impolite, unmannerly, impertinent, impudent, objectionable, displeasing: Nigel has been asked to leave because of his offensive behaviour. 3 disgusting, unsavoury, unpalatable, nauseating, nauseous, noisome, noxious, obnoxious, repugnant, repulsive, repellent, revolting, abominable, foul, loathsome, vile, sickening, fetid or foetid, rank, malodorous, mephitic, putrid, putrescent, putrefying, rancid, rotten: An offensive stench emanated from the stagnant pond. --n. 4 attack, offence: At last, our team was on the offensive. 5 attack, onslaught, drive, assault, offence, push: The offensive to capture the arsenal will be launched at dawn tomorrow.
office n. 1 business, organization, department, firm, house, establishment, company, corporation: Whenever I'm travelling, I always try to phone the office once a day. 2 commission, department, branch; section, division: He was with the overseas office for years. 3 workplace, offices; room, area: Our new office is completely air-conditioned. My office is next to the board room. 4 duty, obligation, responsibility, charge, commission, service, employment, occupation, position, post, appointment, assignment, chore, task, job, place, berth, work, role, function, purpose, part, bit, Colloq thing, Slang shtick: He was appointed to the office of Minister of Health. In her office as Minister of Finance, she wields great power. 5 offices. indulgence, intermediation, auspices, support, advocacy, aegis, help, aid, intercession, mediation, patronage, favour, backing, backup: She appealed to the police chief's good offices to allow her to visit her son.
officious adj. dictatorial, intrusive, intruding, meddlesome, meddling, obtrusive, forward, bold, interfering, aggressive, insistent, persistent, demanding, importunate: Hamish is one of those officious little men who are always ready to give unasked-for advice.
often adv. frequently, regularly, much, many times, usually, habitually, commonly; ordinarily, again and again, over and over again, time after time, repeatedly, time and (time) again, in many cases or instances, on numerous occasions, day in (and) day out, continually, Literary oftentimes, oft: How often do you visit your mother? We often went to the seaside for our summer holiday. She was often warned not to go too near the edge. ogle v. 1 leer, eye, make eyes at, Colloq give (someone) the glad eye, give (someone) the once-over, make sheep's eyes at: The old lecher is always ogling the pretty young secretaries. 2 gape, gaze, goggle, gawk, stare, Slang Brit gawp or gaup: We took turns ogling the rings of Saturn through the telescope. --n. 3 leer, stare, gape, goggle, oeillade, Colloq once-over, glad eye: They all crowded round the paper for an ogle at the pin-ups.
OK interj. 1 OK!, Okay!, Fine!, Yes!, Definitely!, Agreed!, Very well!, All right!: 'Would you have dinner with me?' 'OK!' 'I think you ought to leave.' 'OK!' --adj. 2 satisfactory, acceptable, correct, suitable, all right, fine, good, in order: Is it OK if I go the cinema tonight? That dress is OK to wear to the dance. 3 adequate, mediocre, fair, middling, passable, tolerable, Colloq so so, pretty good, not bad, not great: The film was OK, I suppose. 4 well, healthy; sound, in good condition, in fine fettle, fine, all right: Now that he's on the proper medication, Sam is OK. The mechanic assured me that my car would be OK. --v. 5 approve, sanction, ratify, authorize, endorse, support, agree to, allow, consent to, agree to, Colloq give the go-ahead or green light to, give the thumbs up or the nod to, rubber-stamp: A department head must OK your expense account before you can be reimbursed. --n. 6 approval, sanction, ratification, authorization, endorsement, agreement, support, permission, consent: You need an OK from the security guard to enter the restricted area. --adv. 7 all right, satisfactorily, well (enough), adequately: She can get along OK without me.
ominous adj. 1 foreboding, threatening, fateful, dark, black, gloomy, lowering or louring, menacing, sinister; unpropitious, unfavourable, ill-omened, ill-starred, unpromising, star-crossed, inauspicious: With ominous solemnity, the judge placed a black cloth square on his head before passing the death sentence. 2 minatory, warning, admonitory, cautionary: The whispering had taken on ominous overtones. 3 portentous, prophetic, oracular, vaticinal, predictive, prognostic, augural, mantic, sibyllic, meaningful, premonitory, foreshadowing, foretelling, foretokening, indicative: Virtually everything was regarded as ominous in ancient times.
one adj. 1 single, lone, solitary, individual, sole, only: The one time I kissed Margie it was heaven. 2 unified, united, inseparable, joined, undivided, one and the same, identical, equal, at one, harmonious, in unison, whole, entire, complete: When he went into a trance, he felt one with his God. 3 a particular, a certain, a given, a specific: I recall one occasion when she brought all her dogs into work. --pron. 4 a person, an individual, a man or a woman, everybody, everyone, anybody, anyone; people; Possibly offensive man: One ought to treat others as one would like to be treated. One cannot be too careful these days. --n. 5 joke, story, anecdote, chestnut, one-liner; limerick, rhyme, ditty, song; bromide: Have you heard the one that begins, 'There was a young man from Loch Ness'?
only adj. 1 sole, single, solitary, lone, one and only, exclusive: He is the only one who can identify the murderer. --adv. 2 solely, just, exclusively, alone: He has a face that only a mother could love. They have been here only twice. She gets her own way only because she has a tantrum if anyone crosses her. Harry was correct in one respect only. 3 merely, simply, barely, at best, at worst, at most, just, purely, not or no more than, not or no greater than: She is only seventeen. I received your note only today. Don't get excited, it's only a small present. --conj. 4 but, however, on the other hand, on the contrary, contrariwise: The flowers are lovely, only they have no scent.
opacity n. 1 opaqueness, darkness, murkiness, dimness, obscurity, impermeability, impenetrability: The opacity of the lens increases automatically in the presence of sunlight. 2 obscurity, density, impenetrability, unintelligibility, indefiniteness, vagueness, reconditeness, abstruseness, ambiguity, equivocation, mystification: For centuries scientists were unable to penetrate the opacity of the question of what occurred when substances burned. 3 stupidity, dullness, denseness, thickness, obtuseness: A light finally dawned through the thick opacity of his brain.
opening n. 1 break, breach, rent, rift, cleft, crack, crevice, fissure, cranny, chink, pit, gap, split, slit, slot, aperture, hole, orifice, separation: Flowers grew from openings in the wall. 2 opportunity, chance, occasion, toe-hold, foothold, Colloq break, toe or foot in the door, Brit look-in: I was waiting for an appropriate opening to make my presentation. 3 job, position, opportunity, vacancy: Is there likely to be an opening in the art department of your company? 4 beginning, commencement, start, birth, origin, outset, onset, inauguration, launch, send-off, initiation, presentation, debut; vernissage, US start-off, start-up: The opening of the autumn social season was marked by Malcolm's birthday party. Aren't you going to the opening at the museum tonight?
operation n. 1 function, functioning, working, running, performance, action, motion, movement: The operation of the internal combustion engine is very simple. 2 manipulation, handling, direction, running, control, management, managing; manoeuvring: The operation of the aircraft is under the control of the captain. 3 undertaking, enterprise, venture, project, affair, deal, procedure, proceeding, (day-to-day) business, transaction: Who will be in charge of the operation while the president is abroad? 4 Often, operations. action, manoeuvre, mission, task, campaign, exercise: The generals directed military operations from positions close to enemy lines. 5 in or into operation. functioning, operative, in effect, in force, operating, operational, functional, effective, efficacious: Is the factory in operation yet? The new regulations went into operation last week. operative adj. 1 See operation, 5, above. --n. 2 worker, hand, employee; craftsman, craftswoman, artisan, mechanic, machinist: We hired two more lathe operatives today. 3 private detective, (private) investigator, Colloq private eye, sleuth, Brit sleuth-hound, US PI, gumshoe, Slang (private) dick, US shamus, eye: Our operatives reported that Jones had been seen in the company of a known enemy agent. 4 espionage or intelligence agent, counter-espionage or counter-intelligence agent, spy, counter-spy, undercover agent or man, (FBI or CIA) agent, US G-man, Colloq US company man, member of the firm: We had an operative at the top level of the NKVD.
opponent n. antagonist, adversary, disputant, contestant, competitor, contender, rival, foe, enemy; the opposition: He may be my opponent in the chess competition, but we are the best of friends.
oppose v. 1 resist, counter, object (to), defy, take a stand against, withstand, resist, combat, contest, attack, counter-attack, fight, grapple with, contend with or against: If it comes to that, we must oppose force with force. 2 check, bar, obstruct, block, hinder, impede, stop, slow, curb, restrain, inhibit, interfere with, restrict, prevent, obviate, preclude, thwart, foil, frustrate: Labour seeks to oppose the privatization of industry. 3 match, offset, counterbalance, contrast, pit or set against, play off (against), set off: What can they call upon to oppose the power of the Devil?
opposition n. 1 hostility, antagonism, unfriendliness, resistance, counteraction, disapproval, objection, conflict, defiance, contrast, antipathy, adversity, Colloq flak: There is strong opposition to plans for an amusement arcade. 2 competition, opponent, adversary, competitor, antagonist, enemy, foe, rival, other side: We must overcome the opposition in order to win. 3 in opposition. competing, competitive, antagonistic, hostile, conflicting, in conflict, antithetic(al), opposed, at daggers drawn, in deadly embrace: Although they agree on some points, the parties are in opposition on others.
oppressor n. bully, tyrant, taskmaster, taskmistress, despot, autocrat, persecutor, slave-driver, dictator, overlord, iron hand, scourge, tormentor, torturer, intimidator: The citizens finally banded together and overthrew their oppressors.
optional adj. voluntary, discretionary or discretional, elective, facultative, free, spontaneous, uncoerced, unforced, non-compulsory, uncompulsory, non-mandatory, unmandatory, non-requisite, unrequisite: Life insurance is optional for those who have our hospitalization policy.
oration n. speech, declaration, address, lecture, recitation, discourse, monologue, declamation; valedictory, eulogy, homily, panegyric; Colloq spiel: Bentley delivered a long oration on the future of the economy.
ordeal n. trial, test, tribulation(s), hardship, affliction, trouble(s), suffering, distress, anguish, nightmare, misery, grief, misfortune, adversity, tragedy, disaster: She never fully recovered from her ordeal at the hands of the kidnappers.
ordinary adj. 1 usual, normal, expected, common, general, customary, routine, typical, habitual, accustomed, traditional, regular, everyday, familiar, set, humdrum: This wine is quite good for ordinary drinking. Just display ordinary good manners when you meet the queen. 2 common, conventional, modest, plain, simple, prosaic, homespun, commonplace, run-of-the-mill, everyday, average, unpretentious, workaday, mediocre, fair, passable, so so, undistinguished, unexceptional, unremarkable, uninspired, pedestrian, bourgeois, peasant, provincial, unrefined, Colloq Brit common or garden, US common-or-garden variety, garden-variety: They bought a rather ordinary house in an inferior neighbourhood. --n. 3 standard, norm, average, status quo, convention, expected: Saint-Gaudens' architectural designs are far from the ordinary. 4 out of the ordinary. extraordinary, unusual, uncommon, strange, unfamiliar, different, unexpected, unconventional, curious, eccentric, peculiar, rare, exceptional, original, singular, unique, odd, bizarre, weird, offbeat, outlandish, striking, quaint, picturesque: She was looking for a gift that was a little out of the ordinary, so I suggested a pet tarantula.
organization n. 1 organizing, structuring, assembling, assembly, putting together, coordination, systematizing, systematization, classifying, classification, categorizing, categorization, codifying, codification: The organization of the school timetable took hours to complete. 2 structure, pattern, configuration, design, plan, scheme, order, system, organism, composition, arrangement, constitution, make-up, grouping, framework, format, form, shape: One must consider the organization as a whole, not merely its constituent elements. 3 body, system, institution, federation, confederacy, confederation, society, group, league, coalition, conglomerate, combine, consortium, syndicate, organism: The organization is a coherent structure made up of an enormous number of disparate elements.
origin n. 1 source, derivation, rise, fountain-head, foundation, basis, base, well-spring, fount, provenance, Chiefly US provenience: The origins of many English words are unknown. 2 creation, genesis, birth, birthplace, cradle, dawning, dawn, origination, start, beginning, commencement, outset, launch, launching, inception, inauguration: The origin of the notion of democracy can be traced to ancient Greece. 3 Often, origins. parentage, ancestry, extraction, descent, lineage, pedigree, genealogy, stock, heritage: We have traced our family's origins back to the Middle Ages.
originate v. 1 create, bring about, engender, give birth to, beget, conceive, initiate, inaugurate, start, begin, introduce, launch, found, set up, institute, establish, invent, coin, devise, pioneer, design, contrive, concoct, mastermind, compose, organize, formulate, form, generate, produce, develop, evolve: Wasn't it the Chinese who originated free public health schemes? 2 arise, rise, begin, start, come, spring, stem, flow, issue, emerge, emanate, proceed, grow, develop, evolve, derive, result: Where did the idea of the democratic form of government originate?
orthodox adj. conformist, accepted, authoritative, authorized, recognized, received, official, standard, prevailing, prevalent, common, regular, popular, ordinary, doctrinal, established, traditional, traditionalist, accustomed, conventional, customary, conservative: The orthodox view is that he was killed by an assassin acting on his own. oscillate v. fluctuate, vibrate, waver, see-saw, swing, sway; vacillate, equivocate, shilly-shally, hem and haw, tergiversate: The needle is oscillating between the 'Safe' and 'Danger' marks. I wish he'd stop oscillating and make up his mind.
ostracize v. blackball, blacklist, banish, exile, boycott, isolate, segregate, exclude, excommunicate, snub, shun, avoid, Chiefly Brit send to Coventry, Colloq cut, cold-shoulder, give (someone) the cold shoulder: Marcus has been ostracized at the club ever since the court case.
outcast n. pariah, exile, reject, persona non grata, leper, untouchable, expatriate, refugee, displaced person, DP, evacuee: In 1946, Europe swarmed with outcasts, the detritus of the war.
outdoor adj. outside, out of doors, alfresco, open-air: Both of them enjoy outdoor activities like hiking and bicycling.
outlandish adj. unfamiliar, strange, odd, queer, offbeat, peculiar, curious, exotic, foreign, alien, unknown, unheard-of, different, exceptional, extraordinary, quaint, eccentric, bizarre, outr, weird, fantastic, unusual, singular, unique; freakish, grotesque, barbarous; Colloq far-out, camp(y), kinky: Those youngsters wear the most outlandish hair-dos you have ever seen.
outlet n. 1 way out, exit, egress, loophole, relief, escape, escape hatch, vent, opening, release, safety-valve, discharge: There seemed to be no outlet for his anger but to throw the cushion at her. The main outlet of the Great Lakes is the St Lawrence river. 2 retailer, shop, store, market: The company is having difficulty finding outlets that will stock its products.
out-of-the-way adj. 1 untravelled, unfrequented, isolated, lonely, outlying, obscure, hidden, secluded, inaccessible: She now lives in some out-of-the-way village in the Himalayas. 2 unusual, odd, peculiar, extraordinary, far-fetched, remarkable, outr, exceptional, outlandish, strange, rare, uncommon, exotic, unheard-of, unconventional, queer, weird, bizarre: His latest book is a treatise on some out-of-the-way subject.
outrageous adj. 1 excessive, extravagant, immoderate, exorbitant, enormous, unreasonable, preposterous, shocking, extreme, unwarranted, exaggerated, unconscionable, inordinate, intolerable, disgraceful, shameful, scandalous: The prices at that restaurant are absolutely outrageous. 2 vicious, cruel, heinous, atrocious, barbaric, inhuman, abusive, beastly, horrible, horrid, horrendous, iniquitous, villainous, wicked, evil, egregious, flagrant, grievous, infamous, execrable, abominable, grisly, hideous, monstrous, vile, unthinkable, foul, awful, unspeakable, appalling, offensive, indecent: The captives suffered the most outrageous treatment at the hands of their conquerors. 3 indecent, offensive, immoral, rude, indelicate, obnoxious, profane, obscene, dirty, filthy, lewd, salacious, foul, smutty, scatological, pornographic, objectionable, repellent, repulsive, nauseating, nauseous, nasty, gross, revolting, shocking, repugnant, disgusting, fulsome, perverted, depraved, dissolute, degenerate, dissipated, debauched, profligate; explicit, unrestrained; foul-mouthed, thersitical, insulting; unseemly, inappropriate, indecorous, improper, naughty, appalling, embarrassing; Literary Fescennine, US shy-making: The sermon denounced the outrageous films, books, magazines, and television programmes to which children are exposed. Warren sometimes says the most outrageous things.
outside n. 1 exterior, face, facing, shell, skin, case, casing, surface, front; faade: What is that on the outside of the box? The outside of the house is painted white. 2 aspect, appearance, look, demeanour, face, front, faade, mien, mask, disguise, false front, pretence: One cannot tell what people are really like from the outside they present to the world. 3 extreme, limit, most, maximum, utmost, best, worst, longest: At the outside, you shouldn't pay more than half your income for housing. I'll wait for her for an hour at the outside. 4 the world at large: We had to bring in someone from the outside to complete the work. --adj. 5 exterior, external, out of doors, outdoor: They have added an outside swimming-pool to the house. 6 maximum, maximal, highest, best, worst, greatest, most, largest, longest, furthest or farthest: What was their outside estimate for replacing the roof? The outside time for driving here from London is about an hour. 7 private, home, cottage, secondary, peripheral, independent, freelance: Her outside job pays more than her regular work. 8 unlikely, remote, faint, Colloq slim: He has an outside chance of beating the world record. 9 foreign, alien, outward; unconnected, excluded, uninvolved, disinvolved, independent, separate, different: I'm worried that Phil might be subject to outside influences. An outside contractor is doing the work. --adv. 10 outdoors, out of doors: Perhaps you'd like to step outside to discuss the matter further?
outspoken adj. candid, frank, open, free, direct, unreserved, unreticent, straightforward, forthright, explicit, specific, plain-spoken, plain-speaking, unequivocal, unceremonious, unambiguous, unsubtle, uninhibited, unshrinking, blunt, bold, brusque, brash, undiplomatic, tactless, crude: Linda was always quite outspoken in her opinions of her neighbours. Her outspoken observations are a fruitful source of gossip.
outwardly adv. externally, apparently, visibly, superficially, ostensibly, evidently, seemingly, on the surface, to all appearances, to all intents and purposes: Though the town was outwardly quiet, we had a feeling of ominous foreboding.
ovation n. applause, acclamation, acclaim, plaudits, cheers, cheering, clapping, laudation, praise, kudos, Colloq (big) hand: At the conclusion of the concerto, the pianist was given a standing ovation.
overbearing adj. repressive, domineering, bullying, imperious, officious, high and mighty, high-handed, overweening, magisterial, lordly, authoritarian, wilful, despotic, dogmatic, autocratic, tyrannical, dictatorial, peremptory, arbitrary, assertive, arrogant, cavalier, haughty, superior, supercilious, pretentious, Colloq bossy, pushy, hoity-toity, highfalutin or hifalutin, snooty, Slang snotty: His temper was harsh and severe, his manner haughty and overbearing.
overcritical adj. supercritical, hypercritical, captious, carping, niggling, cavilling, querulous, fault-finding, finicky, fussy, hair-splitting, difficult, fastidious, harsh, severe, demanding, exacting, small, small-minded, US and Canadian picayune, Colloq picky, nit-picking, pernickety or US also persnickety: You should not be overcritical of Maddy - she's only a child.
overeat v. gorge, binge, gormandize, stuff oneself, overindulge, guzzle, feast, wolf down, overfeed, do the gavage, Colloq pack away, Brit pig, US pig out: People not only overeat but they tend to eat the wrong foods.
overhead adv. 1 (up) above, (up) in the air or sky, high up, on high, aloft, skyward: The aeroplanes passed overhead at dawn. --adj. 2 elevated, raised, upper: The crane travels on an overhead track. --n. 3 Brit overheads, US overhead. (basic or fixed) costs, operating cost(s), expense(s), outlay, disbursement(s), running cost(s), expenditure(s), maintenance, cost(s) of doing business: One way to increase profits is by reducing overheads.
overlook v. 1 miss, slip up on, omit, neglect, slight, disregard, fail to notice, ignore, pass over, leave out, forget, Colloq pass up: You overlooked an error on the first page. 2 blink at, wink at, let go (by), let pass, let ride, turn a blind eye to, shut (one's) eyes to, pretend not to notice, take no notice of, ignore, disregard, forgive, pardon, excuse, permit, allow, forget about, write off, condone, make allowances (for), let bygones be bygones, gloss over: I shall overlook your slowness if you will work late to compensate for it. 3 front on (to), face, give upon, command or afford a view of, look out on or over, have as a vista or view: My room overlooks the lake.
overrate v. overvalue, make too much of, exaggerate the worth or value of, attach too much importance to, overprize, assess too highly: They insist that his value to the company is overrated and that he should be dismissed.
oversee v. direct, manage, watch (over), keep an eye on, administer, superintend, run, supervise, operate, manipulate, handle, control: We employed Gertrude to oversee our offices in Frankfurt.
overstate v. exaggerate, magnify, hyperbolize, embroider, overstress, colour, make (too) much of, overdraw, overemphasize, stretch, enlarge, inflate, blow up: They might have overstated the problem by asking for a 24-hour police guard.
overthrow v. 1 defeat, beat, rout, conquer, overpower, master, bring down, depose, oust, overwhelm, unseat, unhorse, topple, overturn, dethrone, thrash, worst, best: The new leader was overthrown by the partisans in two weeks. Cotswold Rangers overthrew Kent United in last night's match at Hurley. --n. 2 defeat, rout, conquest, deposing, ousting, unseating, toppling, overturn, overturning, downfall, end, ruin, fall, collapse, destruction, suppression, quashing, crushing, subjugation, US ouster: The overthrow of the military regime was followed by weeks of rioting and looting.
overwhelm v. 1 overpower, overcome, overtax, devastate, stagger, crush, defeat, destroy, subdue, suppress, quash, quell, conquer, beat, bring down, prostrate, weigh down, oppress: Overwhelmed by grief, she dissolved into tears. 2 inundate, overcome, engulf, submerge, flood (over); deluge, swamp, bury, immerse: A feeling of terror suddenly overwhelmed me as I watched my safety rope fray and break. In only a few hours the rising waters had completely overwhelmed the house. 3 overcome, stagger, astound, astonish, dumbfound or dumfound, shock, stun, bewilder, confuse, confound, nonplus, surprise, take aback, Colloq bowl over, knock off one's feet or pins, blow one's mind, discombobulate, Brit knock for six: We were overwhelmed by the friendly reception that awaited our return.
owner n. possessor, holder; proprietor, proprietress: The papers have been returned to their rightful owner. Who is the owner of the property? pace n. 1 step, stride: Please walk forward two paces. 2 rate (of speed), tempo, speed, velocity, Colloq clip: We were proceeding at a pace of five miles per hour. --v. 3 walk, stride, tread; traverse: Alistair paced up and down nervously, waiting for word from the surgeon. 4 measure, gauge or gage, judge, rate, estimate, determine, reckon, figure, compute: I was trying to pace myself to conserve some energy for a sprint finish.
packet n. 1 package, parcel, pack, batch: We found a packet of your old love-letters in a trunk in the lumber room. 2 loads, lot(s), great deal, fortune, mint, Colloq bundle, pretty penny, pile(s), tidy sum, king's ransom, Brit bomb: He lost a packet on that property when they built a sewage plant alongside it.
paddy n. rage, (fit of) temper, fit, tantrum, Colloq Brit paddywhack or paddywack, wax: She was in a proper paddy when she found out what you'd done.
pageant n. spectacle, display, grandeur, tableau, show, parade, procession, ceremony, formality, ritual, event, affair, extravaganza, presentation, gala: The children stage a medieval mystery play as a part of the annual Christmas pageant.
painfully adv. agonizingly, distressingly, disagreeably, unpleasantly, unfortunately, sadly, woefully, lamentably, ruefully, unhappily: I became painfully aware that much of the relief destined for the poor never reached them.
paint n. 1 colour, tint, dye, colouring, pigment, stain: I bought the paint and brushes, and started work on the kitchen walls. 2 coating, coat, surface; enamel: The rust has come through the paint here and there. 3 make-up, cosmetics, maquillage, greasepaint, Colloq warpaint, face: Sheila is in her room putting on some paint before we go out. --v. 4 depict, portray, picture, show, represent, delineate, render, draw, limn, characterize, describe: Whistler painted a portrait of my grandmother. Correspondents painted a very grim picture of the plight of the hostages. 5 coat, brush, apply, cover, daub: The doctor painted the area with some medication that soothed the pain. 6 colour, tint, dye, stain, decorate: We are planning to paint the nursery pale blue. 7 paint the town red. make merry, carouse, revel, go on a spree, go out on the town, Colloq whoop it up, live it up, (go on a) pub-crawl, step out, Slang make whoopee, go on a bender or drunk or binge, booze it up: Saturday nights a few of the boys would go out and paint the town red till the wee hours.
palatial adj. luxurious, de luxe, magnificent, splendid, stately, sumptuous, opulent, majestic, magnificent, grand, elegant, palatine, Slang posh, ritzy, swanky, classy: After winning the pools, they moved into a palatial house in Belgravia.
pall n. 1 shroud, covering, mantle, cloth, veil: A black velvet pall covered the coffin. 2 gloomy or melancholy or sombre or grave or depressing air or mood or atmosphere; damper, cold water, Colloq wet blanket: The recently uncovered scandals have cast a pall over his successes in office.
pamphlet n. booklet, brochure, tract, essay, folder, leaflet, circular; handbill, bill, notice, bulletin, advertisement, hand-out, ad, Brit advert, US flyer, throw-away: He was arrested for printing a pamphlet that denounced the government's repression of free speech. Yesterday we received our sixteenth pamphlet promoting replacement windows.
pander v. 1 Usually, pander to. satisfy, gratify, humour, indulge, fulfil, bow to, yield to, truckle to, cater to: She is tired of pandering to his every wish. 2 procure, pimp, solicit: I didn't believe he would sink so low as to pander for his business clients. --n. 3 panderer, pimp, procurer, solicitor, whoremonger, White slaver, Slang flesh-pedlar or US also flesh-peddler or flesh-pedler, Brit ponce, mack: The word pander is an eponym for Pandarus, who acted as a sycophantic go-between for Troilus in Chaucer's Troilus and Criseyde .
panic-stricken adj. panic-struck, terrified, alarmed, horrified, aghast, terror-stricken or terror-struck, panicky, frenzied, in a frenzy, hysterical, besides oneself with fear or terror, fearful, afraid, scared (stiff), petrified, horror-struck or horror-stricken, frightened or scared out of one's wits, appalled, stunned, stupefied, perturbed, unnerved, nervous, distressed, upset, jittery, jumpy, (all) worked up, Colloq in a cold sweat, in a flap, in a tizzy, Taboo slang scared shitless, shitting green: At the news of the leak at the nuclear plant, hundreds of panic-stricken people fled from the area.
paper n. 1 newspaper, tabloid, daily, weekly, journal, gazette, publication, periodical, newsletter, organ, Colloq rag, sheet: She is feature editor of a paper in Manchester. 2 Often, papers. a document(s), instrument, legal papers, form, certificate, deed, ownership papers; credential(s), identification: Bring the papers to my office for signing. His papers are not in order. Many people lost their papers during the war. b docket, files, dossier, record(s), archive(s): Your papers seem to have disappeared from our office. 3 stationery, letterhead, writing-paper, letter-paper, notepaper; foolscap; scrap or US also scratch paper; wrapping paper; gift-wrapping, gift-wrap; wallpaper: She wrote to me on the most beautiful engraved paper. We buy our Christmas paper from a museum shop. 4 article, composition, essay, assignment, report, thesis, study, tract, analysis, critique, exegesis, treatise, dissertation, disquisition, manuscript, MS or ms, autograph, holograph, typescript, script, speech: Adelaide will present her paper at the meeting of the Royal Academy this year. --v. 5 (hang) wallpaper, line; post, distribute: The entire area was papered with posters announcing the meeting.
paradise n. 1 heaven, City of God, Zion, Elysium, Elysian Fields, happy hunting-grounds, Abraham's bosom, heavenly kingdom, Promised Land, Celestial City, New Jerusalem, Avalon, Valhalla, Hesperides, Isles or Islands of the Blessed, seventh heaven: People all have their own ideas of paradise, but everyone agrees it's a nice place to be. 2 heaven on earth, (Garden of) Eden, (land of) Goshen, Utopia, Shangri-La, Land of Beulah: Early settlers of California thought it a paradise. 3 bliss, happiness, rapture, heaven, delight, blessedness, ecstasy, seventh heaven, joy, dreamland, nirvana: Being with you has been sheer paradise.
parallel adj. 1 similar, corresponding, congruent, analogous, analogic(al), correspondent, like, matching, homologous, coordinate, equivalent, coequal, proportional, proportionate, pari passu, mutatis mutandis, in proportion, uniform; contemporary or cotemporary, contemporaneous or cotemporaneous: The situation in Northern Ireland could be compared with a parallel situation in Lebanon. --n. 2 analogue, match, homologue, equivalent, complement, counterpart, equal, coequal: Campbell found many parallels among the legendary heroes of other cultures. 3 analogy, parallelism, equivalence, complementarity, relationship, kinship, correspondence, resemblance, likeness, similarity, symmetry, equality, coequality, parity, correlation; proportion, balance, equiponderance, equipoise, counterbalance, offset: One can draw parallels between the human arm, the fish's fin, and the bird's wing. By way of parallel, consider the flood in the Bible and that in the Gilgamesh epic. --v. 4 correspond to or with, match, equate to or with, be likened to, correlate to or with, compare with or to, imitate, repeat, echo, iterate, reiterate, duplicate, follow, agree with; keep pace with, conform (to), balance, set off, offset, even off or up, be accompanied by, coincide with, Colloq jibe with: In many respects, your attitudes towards life parallel mine when I was your age. A decrease in the rate of inflation supposedly parallels a rise in interest rates.
paraphernalia n. usually pl equipment, apparatus, accessories, outfit, appliances, utensils, gear, rig, material(s), matriel, things, tackle, equipage, accoutrements, effects, chattels, possessions, belongings, appurtenances, trappings, property, baggage, impedimenta, supplies, stuff, Colloq junk, Brit rubbish, clobber, Slang crap, Taboo slang US shit: Bring along your scuba paraphernalia. It took us a month just to pack up all the paraphernalia we had in the flat.
parch v. dry (out or up), desiccate, dehydrate, exsiccate; scorch, sear, burn, bake; shrivel (up), wither: The earth was parched by the unrelenting sun.
parenting n. (of children) rearing, upbringing, raising, nurturing: Brian and Betty take their parenting very seriously.
parley n. 1 conference, discussion, dialogue, palaver, deliberation, meeting, colloquy, colloquium, confabulation, powwow, talk(s), Colloq huddle, confab: The issue will be decided at the executive council's parley. --v. 2 confer, discuss, palaver, deliberate, talk (over), negotiate, deal, Colloq huddle: Would Sitting Bull parley with General Custer?
parlous adj. perilous, risky, precarious, uncertain, dangerous, hazardous, difficult, ticklish, awkward, Colloq chancy, iffy, Slang hairy: These are parlous times in the Middle East.
parrot n. 1 imitator, mimic, Colloq copycat: She never has an original idea of her own: she's a mere parrot of others' fashions and fancies. --v. 2 imitate, mimic, ape, copy, echo, repeat, reiterate: Mick doesn't understand the issues and just parrots what he hears on TV.
partiality n. 1 prejudice, bias, inclination, favouritism, predilection, predisposition, leaning, preference: The losers of the contest accused the judges of partiality. 2 preference, taste, relish, liking, fondness, appreciation, fancy, love, eye, weakness, soft spot, penchant; fetish or fetich: Alas, my wife has acquired a partiality for emeralds.
particle n. atom, molecule, scintilla, spark, mote, suggestion, hint, suspicion, gleam, bit, crumb, jot, tittle, whit, mite, speck, dot, spot, iota, grain, morsel, shred, sliver, scrap, Colloq smidgen or smidgin: There isn't the slightest particle of evidence linking them with the murder.
partisan n. 1 partizan, devotee, follower, supporter, adherent, backer, champion, enthusiast, fan, zealot, fanatic, Chiefly US and Canadian booster, Colloq US rooter: He has long been a partisan of surrealism. 2 guerrilla or guerilla, freedom fighter, underground or resistance fighter, irregular: During the war the Yugoslav partisans were led by Marshal Tito. --adj. 3 one-sided, factional, biased, tendentious, sectarian, opinionated, partial, bigoted, prejudiced, parochial, myopic, short-sighted, near-sighted, narrow, narrow-minded, limited: She refuses to become involved in partisan politics. 4 guerrilla or guerilla, freedom, underground, resistance, irregular: They were both members of the Maquis, the French partisan group who fought against the Nazis.
parvenu n. 1 parvenue, upstart, arriviste, nouveau riche, intruder, adventurer, social climber: Usually one generation has to pass before a parvenu is accepted by the class with which his money associates him. --adj. 2 nouveau riche, upstart, intrusive: This parvenu industrialist tried to use his wealth to make up for his lack of refinement.
pass adj. old-fashioned, unfashionable, dated, out of date, behind the times, outmoded, obsolete, obsolescent, antiquated, archaic, dmod, quaint, antique, superseded, Colloq out, not or no longer in, old hat, back number: She persisted in dressing in a style that had been pass at the turn of the century.
passionate adj. 1 ardent, eager, intense, fervid, zealous, avid, eager, earnest, zestful, feverish, fanatic(al), vehement, impassioned, emotional, animated, spirited, enthusiastic, vigorous, invigorated, energetic: Passionate environmentalists campaign for better governmental control of carbon dioxide emissions. 2 aroused, lustful, lecherous, erotic, sexual, amorous, sensual, Colloq hot: She tried to resist his passionate advances. 3 quick-tempered, irascible, hotheaded, fiery, testy, huffy or huffish, peevish, cranky, peppery, choleric, touchy, bilious, snappish, volatile, cross, temperamental, irritable, quarrelsome, pugnacious, argumentative, contentious, belligerent, Rare atrabilious or atrabiliar: Valerie gets into a passionate mood whenever she thinks she is being treated unjustly.
pastiche n. mixture, medley, blend, compound, composite, patchwork, olla podrida, pot-pourri, motley, miscellany, omnium gatherum, mlange, gallimaufry, farrago, mishmash, hotchpotch or US and Canadian hodgepodge, tangle, Colloq mess: The room was furnished in a pastiche of styles from every imaginable period.
pasture n. meadow, meadow-land, pasture land, grassland, grass, lea, range; pasturage: How much pasture is needed for 200 head of cattle?
patch n. 1 piece, scrap, reinforcement; shred, snip, snippet, tatter; pad: Mother sewed colourful patches over the holes in my jeans. 2 area, section, segment, plat, plot, lot, tract, ground, parcel, field: All he ever wanted was a little house on a little patch of land. 3 responsibility, area, bailiwick, territory: The handling of customer complaints is in your patch, Gordon. 4 period, interval, spell, stage, episode, time; experience: She went through a bad patch shortly after Starkey died. --v. 5 patch up or over, mend, repair, vamp, revamp, darn, sew (up), reinforce, cover: I had my trousers patched where the dog bit me. Her father always wore the same patched jacket to the club. 6 Often, patch up. fix (up), doctor, jury-rig, improvise, knock together or up: Can you patch it up so I can drive it home? 7 patch up. settle, set right or straight, straighten out, reconcile, resolve, heal; come or bring to terms, bury the hatchet, kiss and make up, call a truce: Will the two girls ever patch up their differences?
paternity n. fatherhood, fathership; parentage, descent, heritage, line, lineage, extraction, family, stock, strain, blood, patrilineage: The child's paternity was established through DNA tests.
patient adj. 1 resigned, submissive, stoical, long-suffering, compliant, acquiescent, passive, self-possessed, philosophical, serene, unaggressive: The staff who handle complaints must be extremely patient. 2 diligent, dogged, tenacious, persistent, assiduous, sedulous, steadfast, staunch, perseverant, unwavering, unswerving, constant, unfaltering, unfailing, untiring, tireless, indefatigable, pertinacious, determined, resolved, resolute, firm, unyielding: Be patient, and don't do anything rash. 3 forbearing, tolerant, forgiving, lenient, accommodating: We have been patient long enough and must now put a stop to the vandalism. --n. 4 invalid, sufferer, case, valetudinarian: Doctors were called in to treat patients who developed the symptoms.
patron n. 1 patroness, benefactor, benefactress, philanthropist, Maecenas, protector, supporter, defender, advocate, champion, guardian (angel), sponsor, backer, promoter, sympathizer, friend, US booster; friend at court; Colloq angel: Lady Agnes is a well-known patron of the arts. 2 customer, client, purchaser, buyer, patronizer, habitu, regular, frequenter: The patrons habituate her shop because of the bargains to be found there.
pattern n. 1 model, original, archetype, prototype, exemplar, paragon, ideal, standard, yardstick, criterion, gauge, measure: Their life together could serve as a pattern for any couple. 2 figure, motif, design, device, decoration, ornament: The pattern of the wallpaper clashes with that of the curtains. 3 system, order, arrangement, plan, theme; repetition, consistency, orderliness, regularity, sequence, cycle: By carefully noting the movements of the heavenly bodies, ancient observers were able to detect a pattern. 4 blueprint, diagram, plan, layout, design, draft, guide, template or templet, stencil, mould, matrix: These new lighting fixtures are made to a 19th-century pattern. 5 sample, example, instance, specimen, representation: Were you able to match up your fabric pattern with one of those in the tailor's book? 6 layout, configuration, figure, formation, composition: The geese often flew in a V-shaped pattern. --v. 7 Often, pattern on. model on, imitate, copy, mimic, duplicate, follow, emulate, simulate: She tried to pattern her behaviour on that of her older sister. 8 decorate, figure, ornament: Cynthia's gifts were wrapped in a beautifully patterned paper.
pave v. 1 macadamize, tarmac, asphalt, tile, flag, concrete, cover, surface: Europeans thought that the streets of America were paved with gold. 2 pave the way for or to. prepare or smooth the way for, open the door for, make easy or easier for; facilitate, ease: If I talk to him first, perhaps I can pave the way for you to make your proposal.
payable adj. due, owed, owing, outstanding, unpaid, receivable, mature: This bill is payable at the end of the month.
peaceful adj. 1 peaceable, serene, placid, calm, quiet, quiescent, gentle, restful, tranquil, untroubled, undisturbed, unruffled: After our week-end guests left, the house was again peaceful. 2 See peaceable, 2, above.
peal n. 1 ringing, ring, carillon, chime, chiming, toll, tolling, clang, clangour, tintinnabulation, clamour, reverberation; knell; clap, crash, roar, rumble, thunder: The constant peal of the bells nearly drove him mad. The doleful peal rang out for yet another fisherman lost at sea. A resounding peal of thunder shook the house. --v. 2 ring, toll, chime, clang, tintinnabulate, reverberate, resonate, resound; knell; boom, crash, roar, roll, rumble, thunder: The cowbells pealed plaintively, reminding me of my youth in the Alps. Lightning flashed, and the echoing thunder pealed through the valley.
peccadillo n. slip, error, lapse, mistake, infraction, violation, misdeed, shortcoming, misstep, blunder, faux pas, indiscretion, gaffe, botch, stumble, fault, petty sin, (minor) transgression, trespass, Colloq slip-up, goof: We have to forgive the occasional peccadillo.
peddle v. sell, hawk, market, vend, huckster, Colloq push, flog: He is a publishing tycoon today, but he started by peddling books door-to-door.
pedlar n. hawker, (door-to-door) salesman or saleswoman or salesperson, vendor, huckster, seller, colporteur, US peddler, drummer, Archaic chapman, Colloq cheapjack: How can you expect the watch to work if you bought it from a street pedlar?
peer n. 1 noble, nobleman or noblewoman, lord or lady, aristocrat; duke or duchess, marquess or marchioness, earl or countess, viscount or viscountess, baron or baroness: As a peer of the realm, she had certain rights. 2 equal, coequal, compeer, like, match, confrre, associate, colleague: Under law, he is entitled to trial by a jury of his peers.
peg v. 1 pin, dowel, rod, stick, bolt; thole or thole-pin; clothes-peg, hook: Pegs and glue are often used for fastening good furniture together. Hang your coat on the peg. 2 off the peg. ready-made, ready-to-wear, stock: As bespoke clothing is so dear, I buy mine off the peg. 3 take down a peg (or two). humble, diminish, lower, subdue, suppress, downgrade, dishonour, mortify, humiliate, put down, abase, debase, devalue or devaluate: He was acting a bit high and mighty, so she took him down a peg or two. --v. 4 fasten, secure, make fast, fix, attach, pin: They pegged the tent firmly to the ground. 5 fix, attach, pin, set (by), control by, limit by, restrict, confine, freeze, bind, regulate, govern: In indexing, the rate of inflation is often used for pegging wages. 6 toss, throw, shy, flip, sling, cast: I'll bet a fiver you can't peg that stone across the river. 7 peg away or US also along. work (away) (at), persevere (at), apply oneself (to), persist (in or at), go to or at (it), keep at (it), stick to or with or at (it), stay with or at (it), carry on (with or at), Colloq plug away (at), beaver away (at), hammer or bang or peck away (at): Trevor pegs away at his homework every evening.
pen n. 1 writing instrument, fountain-pen, ball-point (pen), Brit trade mark Biro, Old-fashioned quill: Dearest, I have finally found time to put pen to paper. I prefer a pen with a fine point. --v. 2 write (down or up or out), jot down, (make a) note (of), draft, draw up, compose, put on paper, commit to paper, commit to writing, put in writing, scribble, scrawl, scratch, Formal indite: While he was in prison, he penned letters to many men of influence.
penalty n. punishment, discipline, penance, sentence; forfeit, fine, handicap, price, mulct, Formal amercement; imprisonment, incarceration: The prosecution demanded the maximum penalty allowable under law for the crimes.
pending prep. 1 awaiting, waiting (for), depending on, till, until, 'til, till such time as; while, during: Pending the outcome of the trial, he was remanded in custody. --adj. 2 unsettled, undetermined, undecided, unconfirmed, unfinished, inconclusive, up in the air, hanging fire, in the balance, in abeyance; forthcoming, imminent, impending, in the offing, Colloq US in a holding pattern, on hold: The pending negotiations on the rent will determine whether we stay or move house. While the matter is pending, we can do nothing.
penetration n. 1 piercing, perforation, puncturing, incision, puncture, penetrating; inroad, entry, entrance: Penetration of the skull required great effort on the part of the surgeon. Tentatively we attempted the penetration of the jungle. 2 insight, keenness, perception, percipience, intelligence, perspicacity, perspicuity, perspicaciousness, perceptiveness, acuteness, incisiveness, sensitivity, sentience, understanding, acuteness, discernment, discrimination, cleverness, shrewdness, wit, quick-wittedness: We all admired the penetration that was shown by the examiner in the questions she asked.
pennant n. flag, banner, pennon, streamer, banderole, gonfalon, ensign, colours, standard, labarum, Chiefly nautical jack, Nautical and yachting burgee, Technical vexillum: We saw from her pennant that she was a Spanish frigate.
pent-up adj. restrained, constrained, repressed, stifled, bottled-up, corked-up, held in, checked, held back, curbed, inhibited, restricted: After weeks of frustration, he wanted to release his pent-up emotions in a scream. They went jogging to try to work off their pent-up energy.
pepper v. sprinkle, scatter, dot, speckle, fleck, spot, spray, bespeckle, speckle, spatter, stipple, mottle: The letter was peppered with ink-spots. Their speech was peppered with swear-words.
perception n. 1 appreciation, grasp, apprehension, understanding, comprehension, knowledge, perspective, view: Mrs Hart's perception of the situation is quite different from mine. 2 intuition, insight, instinct, feel, feeling, sense, impression, awareness, idea, notion, consciousness, realization: Norton hasn't the slightest perception of what is going on behind his back at the office.
perdition n. damnation, hell, hell-fire, doom, ruin, condemnation, destruction, ruination, downfall: If what divines call lust be punished with perdition, who is pure?
perfection n. 1 purity, flawlessness, faultlessness, sublimity, superiority, excellence, pre-eminence, transcendence: Though we strive for perfection, we never can achieve it. 2 completion, completeness, achievement, fulfilment, realization, consummation, accomplishment, attainment: The building doesn't reach perfection till the last roof-tile is in place. 3 ideal, paragon, model, archetype, pattern, mould, standard, idealization, essence, quintessence, acme, pinnacle, summit: Machiavelli probably achieved the perfection of political cunning.
perfidy n. perfidiousness, treachery, deceit, traitorousness, treason, disloyalty, faithlessness, falseness, falsity, unfaithfulness, infidelity, insidiousness, hypocrisy, betrayal: The name of Judas is a byword for perfidy.
performer n. actor or actress, artiste, Thespian, trouper, player: They received their training as performers in a repertory company.
peril n. danger, threat, risk, jeopardy, exposure, vulnerability, susceptibility, uncertainty, insecurity: You enter there at your peril. It was a time of peril for us all. The child's life was in peril.
periodic adj. periodical, intermittent, regular, recurrent, repetitive, iterative, cyclic(al), repeated; episodic, sporadic, occasional: We called in the plumber because of the periodic hammering in the pipes. The next periodic return of Halley's comet is expected in 2061-62.
perish v. die, expire, lose (one's) life, be killed, be lost, meet (one's) death, be destroyed: Three gnus perished in the fire at the zoo.
permanence n. permanency, stability, durability, fixedness, changelessness, lasting quality, longevity, endurance, persistence, dependability, reliability, survival: The new roofing material is being tested for permanence.
permissible adj. allowable, admissible, acceptable, allowed, permitted, tolerable, legal, licit, lawful, legitimate, authorized, proper, (all) right; pardonable, excusable, venial, Colloq OK or okay, kosher, legit: Some things that are permissible are not necessarily honourable.
perpendicular adj. 1 erect, upright, vertical, plumb, straight (up and down): The plumb-line shows that the wall isn't perpendicular. 2 Often, perpendicular to. at right angles (to), at 90 degrees (to): The two paths are perpendicular to one another.
perpetuity n. permanence, constancy, timelessness; eternity: The estate was bequeathed to the townspeople in perpetuity.
perquisite n. consideration, emolument, bonus, (fringe) benefit, extra, bonus, dividend, gratuity, tip, douceur, baksheesh, token (of appreciation), US lagniappe or lagnappe, Colloq perk: It was traditional to provide each director with a company car as a perquisite.
persevere v. Often, persevere in or with or at. persist, resolve, decide, endure, continue, carry on or through, keep at or on or up, be steadfast or staunch or constant, keep going, stand fast or firm, see through, be or remain determined or resolved or resolute or stalwart or purposeful or uncompromising, be tenacious or persistent or constant or pertinacious or assiduous or sedulous, be tireless or untiring or indefatigable, show determination or pluck or grit, be plucky, be patient or diligent or stubborn or inflexible or adamant or obstinate or obdurate, show or exhibit or demonstrate patience or diligence or stubbornness or inflexibility or obstinacy or obduracy, remain dogged, pursue doggedly, be intransigent or intractable, cling to, stick to, support, stop at nothing, sustain, Colloq stick with, stick (it) out: We must persevere if we are to win. I shall persevere in my loyalty.
person n. 1 individual, human (being), being, man or woman or child, (living) soul; mortal: Not a single person knew the answer to my question. 2 in person. physically, personally, bodily, actually, myself or yourself or himself or herself or ourselves or yourselves, or themselves, Colloq in the flesh: The correspondent visited the battlefield in person to see for himself the extent of the carnage. I know their records, but I have never seen them in person.
personality n. 1 character, nature, temperament, disposition, make-up, persona; identity, psyche: Miles has an extremely abrasive personality that has upset many people. 2 celebrity, luminary, star, superstar, name, headliner, somebody: Whom shall we get as a personality to attract the crowds?
perspective n. 1 (point of) view, viewpoint, standpoint, prospect, vantage point, position, angle, Colloq where one is coming from: I can see that my view would be illogical from his perspective. 2 attitude, position, angle, approach, sentiment, outlook, lookout: Management has a different perspective on what is good for the company.
persuasive adj. convincing, telling, influential, effective, productive, impressive, efficacious, cogent, weighty, compelling, forceful, valid, winning, authoritative, dynamic: His most persuasive argument for our leaving was that if we stayed we'd be shot.
perturb v. upset, disturb, fluster, ruffle, unsettle, disconcert, make uneasy, discomfit, vex, worry, agitate, shake up, alarm, disquiet, confuse, discompose, unnerve, addle, disorganize: He became quite perturbed when the police asked him to help with their inquiries.
perverse adj. 1 wrong, wrong-headed, awry, contrary, wayward, incorrect, irregular, unfair, improper, contradictory: It was most perverse of you to change your mind after all the arrangements had been made. 2 cantankerous, testy, curmudgeonly, churlish, crusty, bad-tempered, petulant, captious, cross, cross-grained, peevish, waspish, snappish, bilious, splenetic, fractious, ill-tempered, quarrelsome, irascible, sullen, contentious, touchy, obstreperous, crabby, crabbed, irritable, surly, Colloq grouchy, Brit stroppy, US and Canadian cranky: With everything going wrong, Catherine feels particularly perverse today. 3 stubborn, self-willed, wrong-headed, intractable, wilful, obdurate, obstinate, pigheaded, adamant, inflexible, unbending, refractory, unyielding: I refuse to give in to a perverse child just because he has a tantrum.
pessimistic n. gloomy, negative, despairing, hopeless, inauspicious, depressed, despondent, dejected, melancholy, downhearted, heavy-hearted, defeatist, glum, sad, blue, unhappy, cheerless, joyless, cynical, bleak, forlorn: The bears in the Stock Exchange take a pessimistic view of share prices.
pet n. 1 darling, favourite, idol, apple of (one's) eye, Colloq Brit blue-eyed boy, US fair-haired boy: You know that you were always Father's pet. --adj. 2 tame, trained, domesticated: Doesn't the landlord take a dim view of your keeping a pet alligator in the bath? 3 favourite, favoured, preferred, cherished, special, particular; indulged, prized, treasured, precious, dearest, adored, darling: Building the summer-house was Desmond's pet project. Elizabeth's pet pupil is Anne. --v. 4 caress, fondle, stroke, pat; cuddle, nuzzle, nestle, snuggle, Colloq neck, smooch or Australian and New Zealand also smoodge or smooge, Chiefly US and Canadian make out: Small children need to be petted a lot. Two teenagers were petting in the back seat of the car. 5 humour, pamper, favour, baby, coddle, cosset, mollycoddle, cocker, spoil, indulge, dote on: His mother pets him far too much.
petition n. 1 request, application, solicitation, suit, entreaty, supplication, plea, appeal: An anti-pollution petition, signed by thousands of people, was delivered to the Department of the Environment. --v. 2 request, ask, apply to, apply for, solicit, sue, call upon, entreat, supplicate, plead, appeal (to), appeal (for), beseech, implore, importune, Rare obsecrate: The shopkeepers petitioned the council for better police protection.
petulant adj. peevish, pettish, impatient, ill-humoured, testy, waspish, irascible, choleric, cross, captious, ill-tempered, bad-tempered, splenetic, moody, sour, bilious, crabby, crabbed, irritable, huffish, huffy, perverse, snappish, crotchety, cantankerous, curmudgeonly, grouchy, grumpy: With a petulant gesture she hurled the rose away.
pharmacist n. pharmacologist, Rather old-fashioned or formal apothecary, Brit (pharmaceutical) chemist, US and Canadian druggist, Formal posologist, Colloq pill pusher, US pill roller: The pharmacist said that those pills have bad side-effects.
phenomenon n. 1 event, happening, occurrence, incident, occasion, experience, fact: Everyone knows the phenomenon of the souring of milk. 2 wonder, curiosity, spectacle, sight, sensation, marvel, rarity, exception, miracle, Slang stunner: An eight-year-old chess champion is truly a phenomenon, even in Russia.
philanthropy n. 1 generosity, benevolence, charity, patronage, magnanimity, charitableness, public-spiritedness, big-heartedness, thoughtfulness, alms-giving, kind-heartedness, beneficence, benignity, liberality, open-handedness: Carnegie's philanthropy was focused on libraries and education. 2 donation, contribution, largesse, aid, grant, assistance, help: Mrs Ander's recent philanthropy allows us to offer six new scholarships.
phlegmatic adj. 1 phlegmatical, stoic(al), unemotional, unenthusiastic, unanimated, sluggish, apathetic, uninvolved, lethargic, unfeeling, uncaring, cold, unresponsive, stolid, unmoved, insensitive, unaffected, insensible, indifferent, unconcerned, uninterested, listless, torpid, indolent, inactive, passive, Rare hebetudinous: Hutton is far too phlegmatic to be stirred by the fervour of the revolutionaries. 2 phlegmatical, self-possessed, self-controlled, controlled, restrained, composed, calm, serene, tranquil, placid, cool-headed, equanimous, cool, undisturbed, unperturbed, unruffled, imperturbable, even-tempered, philosophical, temperate, moderate: One has to learn to be phlegmatic about things going wrong at the office.
photographer n. lensman, lenswoman, cameraman, camerawoman, cinematographer, paparazzo (pl., paparazzi), Old-fashioned photographist: The photographers clustered round the prime minister.
physician n. doctor, medical doctor, MD, doctor of medicine, medical practitioner, general practitioner, GP, medical man or woman, specialist, diplomate, Brit navy surgeon, Colloq doc, medico, medic, US man, Slang sawbones, bones: You ought to see a physician if the pain persists.
pictorial adj. 1 graphic, picturesque, vivid, telling, striking, expressive, plain, explicit, clear, lucid: Many of the poet's images are amazingly pictorial. 2 illustrated: They published a pictorial history of biblical lands just for children.
pice de rsistance n. highlight, (special or main) feature or attraction, spcialit (de la maison), masterpiece, chef-d'oeuvre, Brit speciality, US specialty: The pice de rsistance of the meal was a magnificent gateau.
piercing adj. 1 strident, shrill, harsh, ear-splitting, ear-shattering, high-pitched, screaming, shrieking, screeching, loud, blaring: The piercing sound of the police siren made me sit bolt-upright in bed. 2 probing, searching, penetrating, sharp, keen; arresting, gripping, spellbinding, enthralling, fascinating, entrancing: I was completely transfixed by her piercing green eyes. 3 penetrating, icy, frosty, frigid, chilling, freezing, cold, numbing, keen, wintry, arctic, raw, bitter, fierce, biting, nipping, nippy: Shivering in that piercing wind I thought I'd never be warm again. 4 stabbing, shooting, excruciating, exquisite, acute, sharp, severe, agonizing, fierce, intense, painful, racking: I suddenly felt a piercing pain in my left ear.
piles n.pl. haemorrhoids.
pilgrimage n. hajj or hadj, holy expedition, crusade; expedition, journey, trek, voyage, tour, trip, excursion: Every year the entire family made a pilgrimage to grandfather's grave.
pilot n. 1 aviator, aviatrix, flier, airman, airwoman, aeronaut, captain: The pilot announced that we would land in five minutes. 2 steersman, helmsman, navigator, US wheelman or wheelsman; guide, leader, cicerone, conductor: The pilot knows his way through the shoals. A student acted as our pilot in our tour of Oxford. --v. 3 guide, steer, run, direct, shepherd, control, lead, navigate, drive; fly: Only someone with local knowledge can pilot the ship into that harbour. The chairman piloted the company through turbulent times.
pincers n.pl. pliers, nippers, tweezers: Can you get the nail out with these pincers?
pinnacle n. top, peak, apex, acme, summit, zenith, maximum, climax, crowning point, consummation, utmost, extreme, perfection; tip, cap, crest, crown: Being elected chairman was the pinnacle of Mark's career. The climbers reached the pinnacle, where they will rest overnight.
pipeline n. 1 pipe, tube, duct, hose, line, main, conduit, passage, conveyor, channel: Pipelines carry gas from the North Sea throughout Britain. Very little information was flowing through the pipeline from Beirut. 2 in the pipeline. on the way, under way, in the offing, ready, imminent, coming, Colloq in the works, cooking, US in work: They said that the contract was in the pipeline and should arrive soon.
pit n. 1 hole, excavation, shaft, cavity, mine, mine-shaft, quarry, working, ditch, trench, trough: Pits had been dug for the extraction of gravel. 2 pothole, hollow, depression, dent, indentation, dimple, pock-mark: His face was disfigured by the pits left by teenage acne. 3 abyss, chasm, well, crevasse, crater: We found a bottomless pit that led to the centre of the earth. 4 the pits. awful, terrible, the worst, Slang lousy: That TV show last night was the pits. He thought that going to school was the pits. --v. 5 dent, pock-mark, dig, scar, hollow out, gouge: The salt air has pitted the metal parts of my car. 6 Often, pit against. match, oppose, set against; contrast: Shirley doesn't stand a chance if they pit her against Maria.
pitched adj. organized, planned, deliberate, coordinated, arranged, systematized: The two armies fought a pitched battle on the plain.
pitiful adj. 1 See piteous, above. 2 small, little, insignificant, trifling, unimportant, beggarly, sorry, mean, contemptible: Does Hodges seriously expect us to praise him for that pitiful contribution of his?
pivot n. 1 pintle, gudgeon, hinge, swivel, pin, kingpin, spindle, fulcrum: Use this stone as a pivot for the lever to lift the rock. 2 centre, heart, focal point, hub, nave, crux: The finance minister regards the interest rate as the pivot on which the economy turns. --v. 3 rotate, revolve, turn, spin, twirl, whirl, swivel: The flywheel pivots on a bearing that requires constant lubrication. 4 hinge, depend, hang, be contingent, revolve around, rely: The whole deal pivots on the cooperation of the banks.
plague n. 1 scourge, epidemic, pestilence, affliction, pandemic, calamity, curse, evil, bane, blight, visitation: The inhabitants turned a plague of locusts to advantage by eating them. 2 irritation, annoyance, nuisance, pest, vexation, bother, thorn in one's side or flesh, torment, torture, Colloq pain (in the neck), headache, aggravation, Slang drag, bitch, hassle, Taboo slang pain in the Brit arse or US ass: It's a plague trying to find a place to park the car. --v. 3 badger, harry, hound, pester, annoy, vex, irritate, bother, harass, nag, nettle, exasperate, gall, annoy, irk, torment, torture, anguish, distress, Brit chivvy or chivy or chevy: I wish the police would stop plaguing me with questions about Jonathan's whereabouts.
plank n. board, timber, slab: The flooring was made up of wide planks laid side by side.
plaster v. smear, daub, bedaub, spread, coat, cover, overlay, superimpose: The mud was plastered all over my boots. They plastered the walls with posters.
platform n. 1 stand, dais, stage, podium, rostrum: After the introduction, the speaker mounted the platform. 2 policy, party line, principle(s), tenet(s), programme, plank: The main elements of our platform will be revealed at the party conference.
plausible adj. 1 likely, believable, reasonable, credible, tenable, conceivable, thinkable, probable, imaginable, admissible, sound, sensible, rational, logical, acceptable, trustworthy, presentable: The police regarded our alibi as plausible. 2 specious, deceptive, meretricious, misleading, deceitful, casuistic, sophistical, Jesuitical, smooth, empty: He was a cunning, plausible sort of fellow.
playful adj. 1 (high-)spirited, cheerful, frisky, frolicsome, kittenish, sprightly, fun-loving, sportive, coltish, mischievous, puckish, impish, elfish, devilish: The cat didn't mean to scratch you, she was just being playful. 2 joking, facetious, teasing, roguish, waggish, jesting, humorous, tongue-in-cheek: Cleo's in a playful mood today, isn't she?
plea n. 1 request, entreaty, appeal, petition, supplication, suit, cry, solicitation: Teenagers' mischievous behaviour is an earnest plea for attention. 2 answer, defence, argument: She entered a plea of 'not guilty' to the charge. 3 excuse, reason, explanation, justification; pretext: His plea was that he had not received the bill and therefore couldn't pay it.
pleased adj. happy, delighted, glad, gratified, satisfied, contented, thrilled; Colloq tickled pink, pleased as Punch, on cloud nine, in seventh heaven, on top of the world, walking on air, Brit over the moon, chuffed: His pleased look comes from his having won first prize. pleasing adj. 1 See pleasant, 1, above. 2 See pleasant, 2, above.
plebiscite n. popular vote or ballot, referendum, poll: The plebiscite revealed that the people were in favour of joining the Common Market.
pliable adj. 1 flexible, pliant, elastic, plastic, fictile, malleable, workable, bendable, bendy, ductile, flexuous, supple; lithe, limber: This substance remains pliable only while it is warm. 2 tractable, adaptable, flexible, pliant, compliant, persuadable or persuasible, impressionable, susceptible, responsive, receptive, docile, manageable, yielding: The other directors may not be as pliable when it comes to improving employee benefits.
plot n. lot, plat, patch or parcel (of land), tract, acreage, area, Brit allotment: I have a small plot by the canal which is ideal for growing potatoes.
plum n. find, catch, coup, prize, treasure; bonus, cream: Harvey's landed a plum job as overseas buyer.
plunder v. 1 pillage, loot, rob, ravage, ransack, rifle, despoil, spoil, vandalize, sack, strip, maraud, devastate, desolate, lay waste: The attacking army plundered the villages. 2 prey on or upon, pirate, capture, seize: The buccaneers plunder the Spanish treasure ships on the high seas. --n. 3 pillage, looting, robbery, depredation, rapine, despoliation, spoliation, vandalization, sack, vandalism, vandalizing, sacking: It is said that the plunder of Rome took no more than a fortnight. 4 booty, loot, spoils, prizes, Slang boodle: The police displayed an Aladdin's cave of plunder recovered from the thieves.
ply n. layer, leaf, thickness, fold: These seams are sewn through two plies of fabric.
poetic adj. 1 poetical, lyric(al), metrical, musical, melodic; idyllic, elegiac, georgic, rhapsodic, epic, dithyrambic: She bought a volume of the poetic works of John Keats. 2 artistic, aesthetic, Parnassian, Hippocrenian, melodious: The novel contains some poetic passages of surpassing quality.
point n. 1 dot, mark, speck; (full) stop, period; decimal point: The writing is smudged, but that looks like a point at the end of the line. 2 tip, peak, apex, spike, spur, prong, sharp end: Be careful of the point of that knife. 3 spot, place, stage, position; site, station, location, locale: We have reached the point of no return on that subject. I stopped at a few points along the way to admire the view. 4 time, moment, instant, juncture: At that point, we were summoned by the dinner bell. 5 focus, essence, meat, pith, quiddity, substance, heart, nucleus, crux, nub, core, bottom, details, Colloq guts, nitty-gritty: I wish he would stop all the palaver and get to the point. 6 purpose, intent, intention, aim, goal, object, objective, sense: What was the point of bringing that piece of gossip into the discussion? 7 thrust, drift, theme, purport, burden, import, implication, significance, signification, sense, meaning; application, applicability, relevancy, appropriateness: We found it difficult to see the point of the argument. 8 promontory, projection, headland, cape, peninsula: It may take us a day to sail round the point. 9 brink, verge: We were on the point of leaving when the guest of honour finally arrived. 10 detail, particular, item, element, nicety, aspect, facet, matter, issue, subject, question; specifics: Some of the points in her speech need clarification. 11 pointer, hint, suggestion, piece of advice, tip: The golf pro at the club gave me some good points on improving my swing. 12 thought, idea, consideration; notion, view, plan, tactic; something: That's a point to keep in mind if you buy another sailing-boat. 13 unit, tally, score: She made her point and went on to win the match. 14 attribute, characteristic, feature, aspect, trait, quality, side, property: I suppose he has his good points, too. 15 beside the point. irrelevant, inapt, inappropriate, malapropos, incidental, immaterial, unimportant, pointless, inconsequential: The fact that she's my sister is beside the point. 16 in point of. in reference to, regarding, as regards, in the matter of, concerning, with respect to: In point of date, the two events coincide perfectly. 17 make a point of or US also make (it) a point to. make an effort (to), put or place emphasis on, go out of one's way (to); emphasize, single out, stress: He made a point of apologizing to the hostess for his behaviour. She made a special point of forgiving him. 18 to the point. relevant, pertinent, appropriate, fitting, apropos, germane, apt, applicable, apposite: The speech was short and to the point. --v. 19 Often, point to. indicate, call or direct attention to: Desire pointed to the building and asked what it was. 20 direct, level, aim, train: I awoke to find her pointing a gun at my head. 21 point out. a designate, call or direct attention to, show, exhibit, indicate, identify: The taxi driver pointed out all the sights as we drove along. b say, bring up, mention, allude to, bring up, emphasize, stress, point up, single out; allude to, call attention to, remind: I'd like to point out that you have rarely won at bridge. She pointed out the fallacy in his argument. 22 point up. emphasize, stress, accentuate, underline, underscore, accent, spotlight: Such errors point up the need to double-check everything.
pointless adj. purposeless, aimless, worthless, ineffective, meaningless, ineffectual, futile, unproductive, fruitless, bootless, useless, vain, senseless, absurd, silly, stupid, inane, asinine, fatuous, preposterous, nonsensical, ridiculous, empty, hollow: After her paper, someone rose and wasted half an hour making pointless remarks.
poison n. 1 toxin, venom, bane; miasma, mephitis: The chemical plant was found to be releasing poisons into the atmosphere. He kills rats using poison. 2 virus, bane, cancer, canker, corrupt or evil influence, pestilence, plague, blight: The drug barons continue to spread their poison throughout the world. --v. 3 defile, adulterate, infect, taint, pollute; contaminate, debase, pervert, vitiate, subvert, warp, envenom: Chemicals from the nearby plant have poisoned the drinking-water. Why have you poisoned the child's mind against eating spinach? 4 murder, kill, do away with, destroy, dispatch or despatch: Lucrezia Borgia poisoned her enemies in ingenious ways.
pole n. rod, stick, staff, spar, shaft, mast, standard, upright; flag-pole, flagstaff, jackstaff; beanpole, hop-pole: We had to use a long pole to get the kite down from the tree.
polish v. 1 shine, brighten, burnish, buff, furbish, wax, clean, smooth, rub, gloss: He polished up the handles so carefully That now he is the ruler of the Queen's navy. 2 Often, polish up. refine, improve, perfect, finish, cultivate, ameliorate, enhance; correct, emend: If you polish up the article we might consider it for publication. 3 polish off. a conclude, end, terminate, finish: Ned polished off his homework in less than an hour. b kill, slay, murder, dispatch or despatch, destroy, dispose of, do away with, liquidate, eliminate, Slang bump off, rub out, do in, take for a ride: Three platoons were polished off quickly. c dispose of, put away, eat, consume, wolf (down): In a few minutes, MacGregor had polished off the entire meal. 4 polish up. study, review, learn, Archaic con, Colloq bone up (on), Slang Brit swot up (on): If you're going to M laga, you'd better polish up your Spanish. --n. 5 gloss, shine, lustre, sheen, glaze, smoothness, brilliance, sparkle, gleam, glow, brightness, radiance: You cannot imagine what a fine polish she put on that old table. 6 wax, oil: The new polish really put a shine on the desk.
political adj. 1 governmental, civic, civil, public, state, national, federal; administrative, bureaucratic: The movement began as an attempt to gain political freedom. 2 partisan, factious, factional: A coalition government was formed by the major political parties.
pollute v. 1 contaminate, adulterate, befoul, foul, soil, spoil, taint, stain, dirty, sully, blight, poison: These factories must be prevented from continuing to pollute the atmosphere. 2 corrupt, desecrate, profane, defile, violate: The altar was polluted because it had been touched by a non-believer.
ponder v. consider, muse (over or on), brood (over or upon or on), mull over, deliberate (over), meditate (upon or on), think (over or on or about), weigh, ruminate (over), chew over, cogitate, excogitate, reflect (on or over), contemplate: I shall need a while to ponder the answer to that question. Give me a little more time to ponder.
poorly adv. 1 badly, inadequately, unsatisfactorily, incompetently, inexpertly, improperly, crudely, unprofessionally, amateurishly: The decorators you recommended have done their work very poorly indeed. --adj. Colloq 2 unwell, indisposed, ailing, sick, below par, Colloq rotten, under the weather: Charles is rather poorly, I'm afraid.
popularity n. favour, acceptance, approval, esteem, regard, repute, reputation, vogue, trend, stylishness, renown, acclaim, fame, celebrity, lionization, (hero-) worship, Colloq trendiness: The immense popularity of her novels in America has made her very rich.
populous adj. crowded, (heavily) populated, peopled, teeming, thronged, crawling, swarming, jammed, jam-packed, packed: The populous cities contrast with the sparsely inhabited rural areas.
pornography n. obscenity, smut, filth, dirt, erotica, Colloq porn: The council voted to forbid the sale of pornography within the town precincts.
portentous adj. 1 ominous, threatening, momentous, sinister, fateful, alarming, menacing, foreboding, ill-omened, inauspicious, unfavourable, ill-starred, ill-fated, star-crossed, lowering or louring, gloomy, unpromising, unpropitious: Precisely at midnight they appeared with the most portentous news. 2 extraordinary, amazing, astonishing, astounding, prodigious, awesome, awe-inspiring, remarkable, marvellous, phenomenal, fabulous, fantastic, mind-boggling, wondrous, miraculous: The coronation of a British monarch is truly a portentous event.
portion n. 1 segment, part, section, division, subdivision, parcel, piece, hunk, chunk, lump, wedge, slice, sliver, fraction, fragment, bit, morsel, scrap: A portion of the masonry fell into the street in the earthquake. 2 share, part, allotment, quota, ration, apportionment, allowance, allocation, assignment, percentage, measure, division, quantity: The size of an investor's portion depends on the amount invested. 3 helping, serving; ration, plate, platter: He complained that the portions in nouvelle cuisine are too small. --v. 4 Often, portion out. apportion, share out, allocate, ration, allot, partition, assign, consign, dole out, deal (out), parcel out, distribute, administer, dispense, disperse, divide, split up, carve up, cut up, break up, section, Colloq divvy up: The conquered territories were then portioned out among the victors.
poseur n. posturer, exhibitionist, pretender, impostor, masquerader, attitudinizer; fake, faker, dissembler, fraud, Colloq show-off, phoney or US also phony: He talks about literature, but he's a poseur who just spouts the opinions of others.
positive adj. 1 sure, certain, definite, unequivocal, categorical, absolute, unqualified, unambiguous, unmistakable or unmistakeable, clear-cut, clear, explicit, express, decisive, indisputable, indubitable, unquestionable, unquestioned, incontestable, uncontested, undeniable, reliable, persuasive, convincing, irrefutable: The police have positive evidence that the men are innocent of any crime. Spending this evening with you has been a positive delight. 2 definitive, emphatic, decided, forceful, firm, peremptory, definite: He gave a positive denial when asked if he had agreed to let the hostages go. She made a positive commitment to meet me here at noon. 3 sure, certain, confident, convinced, satisfied: Are you positive that the last train is at midnight? 4 beneficial, favourable, complimentary, productive, useful: I heard many positive things about the way she handled herself at the interview. 5 overconfident, dogmatic, doctrinaire, pontifical, opinionated, pigheaded, stubborn, obstinate, obdurate, arbitrary, overweening, arrogant, assertive, dictatorial, despotic, imperious, Rare thetic(al): His problem is that he is quite positive about things that simply are not so. 6 practical, realistic, utilitarian, productive, functional, pragmatic(al), realistic, matter-of-fact, Colloq hard-nosed: They have taken a positive approach to studying the economics of small businesses. 7 encouraging, supportive, constructive, reassuring, enthusiastic, favourable, affirmative, yes, confirming: Our plan to buy out the company has received a positive reaction from our bankers. Asked if they would buy our product, businessmen gave a positive response. 8 auspicious, promising, propitious, encouraging; optimistic, favourable, cheerful, confident; Colloq bullish, upbeat: In the long run, the picture for home-owners looks positive. It pays to maintain a positive outlook and not get depressed. 9 complete, utter, total, perfect, out-and-out, consummate, unmitigated, thorough, thoroughgoing; egregious, glaring, stark, sheer, outright, unqualified, unequivocal: You were a positive idiot not to let me know you needed help. All attempts at reconciliation ended in positive disaster.
possession n. 1 ownership, title, proprietorship, control, hold, tenure, keeping, care, custody, guardianship, protection: The paintings are now in my possession. 2 holding, territory, province, dominion, colony, protectorate: How long will the Falkland Islands remain a possession of the Crown? 3 possessions. belongings, property, effects, chattels, assets, worldly goods, things: The prison clerk placed all my possessions in an envelope, explaining that they would be returned when I was released. 4 take or gain possession of. seize, capture, take, conquer, occupy, acquire, win, possess oneself of, secure, obtain; repossess: The raiding party gained possession of the port and surrounding area. The finance company has taken possession of my car.
possibly adv. 1 maybe, perhaps, God willing, Deo volente, if possible, Archaic or literary perchance, mayhap, peradventure: She is possibly the best person for the job. 2 in any way, under any circumstances, by any chance, by any means, at all: Could you possibly help me find my contact lens? The weather forecast couldn't possibly be correct.
poster n. placard, notice, bill, advertisement, announcement, broadside, broadsheet; circular, flier: Who designed that striking poster for the new play?
post-mortem n. 1 autopsy, necropsy: We'll know the cause of death after the post-mortem. 2 review, analysis, Slang US Monday-morning quarterbacking: We can do without the post-mortem on every bridge hand.
pot n. 1 pan, saucepan, cauldron, cook-pot, stewpot; kettle: How many politicians have promised the people 'a chicken in every pot'? 2 jackpot, bank, kitty: You will have to add 5 to the pot to see my hand. 3 pot-belly, paunch, gut, Colloq corporation, beer belly, spare tyre, US bay window: If he exercised more, Patrick wouldn't have such a pot.
pot-pourri n. mixture, medley, miscellany, assortment, olla podrida, smorgasbord or smrgsbord, gallimaufry, salmagundi, patchwork, collection, hotchpotch or US and Canadian hodgepodge, mlange or melange, motley, pastiche or pasticcio, mishmash, jumble, mess: What a pot-pourri of styles is represented in that art gallery!
pounce v. 1 Often, pounce on or upon. spring (on or upon), leap (at or on), swoop down (on or upon), fall upon, jump (at or on), strike, take by surprise or unawares, attack, ambush, Colloq mug: As I rounded the corner, three youths pounced on me, stole my bag, and ran off. --n. 2 spring, leap, swoop, jump: The cat was on the mantel shelf in a single pounce.
pout v. 1 mope, brood, sulk, make a moue, pull a long face, frown, lour or lower, knit one's brows: Don't pout - I'll buy you an ice-cream. --n. 2 frown, moue, long face: Her pout was occasioned by her father's scolding.
powerful adj. 1 potent, strong, mighty, vigorous, robust, energetic, sturdy, stalwart, tough, resilient, dynamic: Leslie has a powerful physique. The cities of the Hanseatic League had powerful economies. 2 influential, strong, compelling, forceful, potent, substantial, weighty, authoritative, effective; important, impressive, telling, effectual, formidable, persuasive: Powerful arguments have been brought to bear against taking such action. She has many powerful friends. 3 strong, potent; intense, substantial, great, high: The drug is too powerful to be taken regularly. A powerful electrical charge was sent through the wire to test the connection.
practice n. 1 custom, wont, habit, routine, convention, tradition, rule, procedure, usage, mode, style, way, modus operandi, technique or technic, Formal praxis, Colloq MO (= 'modus operandi'): She makes a practice of swimming for an hour every day. It is our practice to get patients out of bed as soon as possible after surgery. 2 exercise, discipline, drill, practising, repetition, rehearsal, training, preparation; workout, warm-up; application, study: She needs more practice on the beginner's slope before going down the main piste. 3 pursuit, exercise, work, profession, career, vocation, conduct; business, office: He genuinely enjoys the practice of law. I heard of a veterinary practice for sale in Yorkshire. 4 in practice. practically, actually, day-to-day, realistically, in real life: In practice no one would ever treat an injury the way this book recommends. 5 out of practice. inexperienced, unpractised, unaccustomed, rusty: I once played a good game of chess, but I'm out of practice now.
praiseworthy adj. commendable, laudable, admirable, creditable, worthy, meritorious, deserving, exemplary: However praiseworthy your motives were, you did not stop to consider the consequences.
pray v. 1 beseech, ask, call upon or on, entreat, implore, request, appeal to, plead (with), beg (for), importune, solicit, petition, supplicate, Rare obsecrate: I pray you to find it in your heart to approve my work. 2 say one's prayers, offer a prayer: We prayed for her safe return.
preamble n. introduction, foreword, prologue, preface, Formal proem, prolegomenon, exordium: As a preamble to today's proceedings, I should like to welcome our honoured guests.
precedence n. precedency, priority, pre-eminence, superiority, supremacy, preference, privilege, prerogative, importance, rank, position, primacy: Your school work must take precedence over football practice.
precinct n. 1 Usually, precincts. area, territory, region, province, environs, purlieus, borders, bounds, confines: Does he have any authority outside the precincts of the city? 2 sphere, neighbourhood, zone, sector, section, quarter, district, locale: In some US cities, the area covered by a police station is called a precinct.
precipitation n. showers, drizzle, downpour, rain, rainfall, snow, snowfall, hail, sleet: Precipitation can be expected in advance of the low-pressure area pushing down from the north.
precisely adv. 1 exactly, just, strictly, Colloq on the nail, smack, slap, on the nose, Brit bang on, spot on: His view is precisely the opposite of hers. We left precisely at five o'clock. You phoned, and that is precisely why I came. The two paintings are not precisely the same. 2 exactly, exactingly, correctly, rigorously, absolutely, punctiliously, minutely, carefully, meticulously, scrupulously, conscientiously, strictly, rigidly, inflexibly; in all respects, in every way: This judge follows the letter of the law precisely.
preconceived adj. beforehand, predisposed, prejudged, predetermined, prejudiced, biased, anticipatory: He has many false preconceived notions about people.
predatory adj. 1 predacious or predaceous, carnivorous, preying, raptorial: Despite domestication, dogs and cats are predatory animals. 2 rapacious, ravenous, plundering, robbing, pillaging, marauding, despoiling, looting, piratical, vulturine, avaricious, greedy, voracious, larcenous, thieving, extortionate, usurious: Predatory pirates once ravaged the Mediterranean. Keep out of the hands of predatory money-lenders, my son.
predicament n. dilemma, quandary, difficulty, trial, situation, state, condition, imbroglio, emergency, crisis, impasse, Colloq pickle, jam, fix, pinch, scrape, spot, bind, corner, hole, mess, US box: I was hoping that you might help me out of a very awkward predicament.
predominance n. predominancy, superiority, influence, dominance, pre-eminence, preponderance, ascendancy, precedence, power, supremacy, hold, sway, hegemony, leadership, mastery, control, dominion, sovereignty, transcendence or transcendency, authority, the upper hand, the whip hand, advantage, the edge: We must re-establish the predominance of intellectual vigour over crass commercialism.
pre-eminent adj. 1 See predominant, above. 2 peerless, excellent, distinguished, eminent, inimitable, superb, unequalled, matchless, incomparable, outstanding, unique, unrivalled, unsurpassed, supreme, superior: In her opinion, Craig is the pre-eminent authority on the subject.
preface n. 1 introduction, foreword, prologue, preamble, Formal proem, prolegomenon, exordium: By way of preface, I should like to say how happy I am to be here. The preface to the book is far too long. --v. 2 precede, introduce, prefix, begin, open: The speaker prefaced his acceptance speech with a tribute to his predecessor.
preferential adj. advantageous, biased, prejudiced, favourable, privileged, partial, better, favoured, superior: What entitles her to preferential treatment?
prejudiced adj. 1 unfair, one-sided, biased, jaundiced, opinionated, predisposed, partial, partisan, non-objective, unobjective: The prosecution objected to him as a prejudiced witness. 2 bigoted, intolerant, narrow-minded, closed-minded, parochial, sexist, racist, chauvinistic: We have no room in our organization for people who are prejudiced.
prematurely adv. 1 untimely, too soon, too early: He died prematurely at the age of 46. 2 rashly, (over-)hastily, at half-cock, half-cocked: She dismissed him prematurely, before he had the time to prove himself. The gun went off prematurely, with no chance to aim it.
premise n. 1 premiss, assumption, proposition, postulate, hypothesis, conjecture, assertion, supposition, thesis, presupposition, proposal, theorem, surmise, basis, ground: He started out with the premise that time had a beginning and will have an end. --v. 2 assume, propose, postulate, hypothesize, hypothecate, conjecture, posit, assert, suppose, presuppose, theorize, surmise, put or set forth, predicate, argue: If you accept what Einstein premised in the Special Theory of Relativity, then you accept that space is curved.
preparation n. 1 Often, preparations. a groundwork, spadework, provision(s), foundation, preparing, measures, proceedings: Nothing will interfere with our preparation for the royal visit. b plans, arrangements: We are making preparations to leave tomorrow. 2 fitness, readiness, readying, preparing, training, education, teaching, instruction, instructing, tuition, briefing, grooming, Colloq gearing up, prep, US prepping: The preparation of the students was your responsibility. 3 drawing up, draughting, planning, setting up, putting together, organizing, organization, composing, making: How is your preparation of the new proposal coming along? 4 work, preparing, getting ready, study, studying, practising, practice, Colloq cramming, Brit swotting: All my preparation for the exam was to no avail. 5 substance, compound, concoction, mixture, product, material, stuff, composition: This preparation is a furniture wax, not a suntan lotion.
preparedness n. vigilance, alertness, readiness, fitness: The armed forces were kept in a continuous state of preparedness.
prerequisite adj. 1 essential, necessary, requisite, imperative, indispensable, obligatory, required, called-for, demanded: Naval service is a prerequisite condition for joining the club. --n. 2 precondition, requirement, qualification, requisite, condition, sine qua non, proviso, provision, necessity: A thorough grounding in mathematics is a prerequisite for the study of advanced physics.
prescriptive adj. dictatorial, constrictive, didactic, restrictive, dogmatic, authoritarian, overbearing, autocratic, imperious: As grammar is a description of how language works, it cannot be prescriptive.
presentable adj. 1 fit, fitting, suitable, acceptable, satisfactory, adequate, passable, tolerable, admissible, all right, allowable, up to par or standard or the mark, good enough, Colloq up to scratch, OK or okay, up to snuff: Whether that argument is presentable in a court of law is disputable. 2 decent, proper, polite, decorous, respectable, well-bred, well-mannered, fit to be seen: After a bath, shave, and change of clothing he looked quite presentable.
preserve v. 1 keep safe, protect, guard, take care of, care for, safeguard, watch over, shield, shelter, defend, spare: What can we do to preserve ourselves from this terrible pestilence? May God preserve me, I never expected to see you again! 2 keep (up), maintain, conserve, spare, perpetuate; continue, support, sustain, save: We developed a technique to preserve antique furniture. The sea preserves much of the heat it absorbs in the summer. It is difficult to preserve one's sanity in this madhouse. 3 conserve, put up, pickle, cure, smoke, kipper, salt, corn, marinate, can, freeze, freeze-dry, refrigerate, dry, dehydrate, vacuum-pack; embalm, mummify: The berries were preserved by bottling and freezing. Some of the remains were preserved for hundreds of years. --n. 4 Often, preserves. conserve(s), jam, jelly, confiture, marmalade: Susan likes thick toast with butter and preserves for tea. 5 (game) reserve, reservation, sanctuary, Brit park: No hunting is allowed in this preserve.
pressure n. 1 force, compression; weight, power, strength: The air pressure in your tyres is low. The pressure of the water burst the pipe. 2 compression, pressing, squeezing, compressing, tension, stress, crushing: The pressure of a tourniquet has to be loosened now and then. 3 affliction, oppression, press, weight, burden, load, albatross, strain, stress, urgency, demands, exigency or exigencies, vexation, distress, trouble(s), adversity, difficulty or difficulties, straits, constraint(s), problem(s): Pressure of work prevents me from taking any time away from the office. When interest rates increase, we all feel financial pressure. 4 influence, power, sway, constraint, insistence, coercion, intimidation, arm-twisting; inducement, persuasion, urging, pressing: Without more pressure from local residents, the roadworks will not be completed in time. --v. 5 persuade, influence; prevail upon or on, press, urge, sway, intimidate, bring pressure to bear (on), apply pressure (on or to), coerce, force, compel, constrain, require, demand, make, insist upon or on, Brit pressurize, Colloq twist (someone's) arm, lean on, turn the heat on, Slang put the screws on or to: They pressured him to take the assignment in New Zealand.
presume v. 1 assume, take for granted, suppose, surmise, infer, suppose, presuppose, take it, gather, understand, think, believe, imagine, suspect, fancy, conjecture, postulate, posit, theorize, speculate, hypothesize, hypothecate, US and Canadian guess: For some unaccountable reason, we presumed that your train would arrive on time. Dr Livingstone, I presume? 2 dare, take the liberty, be so presumptuous as, make (so) bold (as), have the audacity or effrontery, go so far as, venture: Who is he to presume to judge others? 3 Often, presume on or upon. encroach (on or upon), impose (on or upon), take liberties (with), intrude (on or upon or into): I hate to presume on our friendship, but could you lend me some money?
presuppose v. See presume, 1, above.
pretender n. claimant, aspirant, candidate, suitor, rival, seeker: He was the pretender to the Scottish throne.
pretty adj. 1 comely, attractive, good-looking, nice-looking, appealing, lovely, cute, mignon(ne), graceful, fair, bonny, fetching, charming, winsome, beautiful, pulchritudinous, Colloq easy on the eye(s): A pretty girl is like a melody. That's a very pretty cottage. 2 tuneful, melodic, melodious, dulcet, musical, lyrical, harmonious, catchy, mellifluous, euphonious: He played a pretty tune on the piano. --adv. 3 rather, quite, fairly, moderately, reasonably, tolerably; somewhat; very, extremely, unbelievably, incredibly: The children put on a pretty good performance, I thought. He had become pretty fat since we last saw him.
prevalent adj. universal, catholic, common, frequent, prevailing, current, ubiquitous, pervasive, omnipresent, general, usual, customary, commonplace, extensive, widespread, established, ascendant, dominant, predominant, governing, ruling: A desire for change is prevalent throughout the country.
preview n. advance showing, private showing; opening, vernissage: We saw the Picasso exhibition at a preview held for friends of the gallery.
price n. 1 charge, cost, expense, expenditure, outlay, payment, amount, figure, fee; quotation, appraisal, value, valuation, evaluation, worth: The price of this lamp is too high. What is the price of that box? Can he afford the price of a ticket? The current price of a London flat is out of my reach. 2 sacrifice, toll, penalty, cost, consequence: Loss of his freedom was too high a price for standing by his principles. 3 reward, bounty, premium, prize, payment, bonus, honorarium, Literary guerdon: The gunfighter had a price of 1000 on his head. 4 without price. See priceless, 1, below. --v. 5 value, evaluate, rate, assay, assess, cost (out): How would you price a piece of furniture like this chair?
prickle n. 1 spine, bristle, barb, thorn, bur, needle, tine, spike, spur, prong: The prickles make the brambles cling to your clothes. 2 pricking, prickliness, itch, itchiness, sting, tingling, tingle: I felt the prickle of the rough wool against my skin. --v. 3 tingle, sting, itch, smart: Sloane complained that the beard he had to grow for the pirate role made his face prickle. 4 stick, jab, prick: The child's hands had been prickled by the chestnuts.
priestly adj. clerical, ecclesiastic, pastoral, hieratic, sacerdotal; ministerial, canonical, missionary: She has taken her priestly vows.
primary adj. 1 first, prime, principal, chief, main, leading, pre-eminent, cardinal, fundamental, basic, essential, predominant, elementary, elemental, underlying: The primary reason I want to see you is to discuss your future with the company. The primary meaning of a word is given first. 2 earliest, first, original, initial, primitive, primeval, primordial, embryonic, germinal, beginning, ultimate: The primary source of life was possibly a sort of soup containing proteins and other molecules. 3 firsthand, direct, immediate: Bauxite is the primary source of aluminium ore. 4 elementary, basic, rudimentary, fundamental: One of the primary lessons we are taught is consideration for others. 5 unmixed, unadulterated, pure, simple, rudimentary, fundamental, principal: The primary colours in art are red, yellow, and blue.
princely adj. 1 lavish, bountiful, generous, liberal, ample, substantial, huge, enormous: They paid a princely sum for their stately home in Surrey. 2 lavish, magnificent, splendid, luxurious, majestic, royal, regal, sumptuous, superb, Colloq ritzy, swank(y), posh, plush: The hotel laid on princely accommodation for us with rooms overlooking the sea. 3 royal, noble, regal, sovereign, of royal or noble blood or rank: Who would have thought that our humble home would ever shelter a princely guest?
principled adj. moral, righteous, right-minded, virtuous, noble, high-minded, ethical, honourable, proper, correct, right, just, upright, honest, scrupulous: Michael is too highly principled to take bribes.
prisoner n. convict, trusty; internee, detainee; Colloq jailbird or Brit also gaolbird, lifer, Slang con, Brit (old) lag, Old-fashioned ticket-of-leave man, US two-time or three-time loser: Prisoners' letters were censored.
private adj. 1 (top) secret, confidential, undisclosed, hidden, clandestine, concealed, covert, surreptitious, off the record, not for publication, unofficial, Colloq hush-hush: I think our relationship should be kept private for the time being. What I am about to tell you is strictly private. 2 privileged, restrictive, restricted, exclusive, special, reserved, personal, inaccessible, non-public; hidden, secluded, concealed, secret, sneaking: The house is situated on a private road. I had a private suspicion that they would cancel their trip. 3 personal, individual, own, intimate, particular: My private affairs are none of your business. 4 solitary, seclusive, reclusive, withdrawn, retiring, reticent, ungregarious, non-gregarious, unsocial, unsociable, antisocial, reserved, uncommunicative, hermitic(al), hermit-like, eremitic(al); sequestered, secluded, retired: You have to bear in mind that Edmund is a very private person. --n. 5 private soldier, infantryman, foot-soldier, US enlisted man, Colloq Brit Tommy, Tommy Atkins, squaddie, US GI (Joe), Slang US grunt: Before cashiering him, they reduced him from colonel to private. 6 in private. in secret, secretly, privately, sub rosa, personally, confidentially, behind closed doors, in camera, off the record, US on the qt or QT; clandestinely, secretively, sneakily, sneakingly, surreptitiously, furtively, covertly, on the sly: Family matters should be discussed only in private. They met in private with agents of the rebel forces. 7 private parts or privates. genitals, sexual or sex organs, genitalia. The natives wore loincloths to cover their private parts.
privy adj. 1 See privileged, 4, above. 2 privy to. aware of, in on, on to or onto, sharing (in), cognizant of, apprised of, informed or advised about or of, informed on, knowledgeable about, Colloq in the know about, Slang hip to, wise to, Old-fashioned hep to: Was the minister's wife privy to what was discussed at cabinet meetings? --n. 3 lavatory, (outside or outdoor) toilet, latrine, water-closet, WC, US outhouse, Colloq chiefly Brit loo, Slang Brit bog, US crapper, Taboo slang US shithouse: In those days, almost every home had an outside privy, as there was no interior plumbing.
probable adj. (most) likely, apt, (quite) possible, presumed, plausible, undoubted, indubitable, apparent, unquestionable, evident, ostensible, odds-on, feasible, believable, credible: The probable cause of the flooding was a blockage in the drains. It is probable that most medieval churches had paintings round the walls.
problem n. 1 difficulty, trouble, question, dilemma, quandary, predicament, complication, hornet's nest, imbroglio, mess, muddle, stew, Colloq can of worms, fine kettle of fish, (pretty) pickle, Brit facer: The Chancellor must constantly deal with the problems of the country's economy. 2 puzzle, conundrum, poser, riddle, question, enigma, puzzler, Colloq mind-boggler, hard or tough nut to crack: The problem is how to get the yolk out without breaking the shell. --adj. 3 unruly, unmanageable, intractable, uncontrollable, difficult, ungovernable, refractory, incorrigible, obstreperous, delinquent, maladjusted, disturbed, emotionally upset: He teaches at a school where most of the students are problem children.
proceeding n. 1 measure, act, (course of) action, move, step, undertaking, deed, procedure, process, operation, transaction, manoeuvre, feat, accomplishment: Grace Darling's rescue of the shipwrecked men was truly a heroic proceeding. 2 proceedings. a transactions, report(s), minutes, record(s), annals, affairs, dealings, business, account(s), archives, Formal acta: The proceedings of the Society are published annually. b events, goings-on, doings; celebration(s); performance(s): The proceedings were briefly interrupted while the hecklers were ejected from the hall.
proclamation n. 1 announcement, advertisement, declaration, publication, promulgation, statement, manifesto, pronunciamento, notification, notice: A proclamation was issued granting amnesty to all political prisoners. 2 proclaiming, announcing, advertising, declaring, broadcasting, publishing, promulgating, heralding, making known, bruiting about: The proclamation of his appointment as Chancellor came at a bad time.
prod v. 1 jab, dig, poke, nudge, elbow: Every time the comedian said something risqu, Aunt Flora would giggle and prod me in the ribs. 2 spur, urge, impel, egg on, push, thrust, prompt, rouse, stir, incite, move, motivate, actuate, activate, provoke, encourage, stimulate: My uncle keeps prodding me to continue with my studies. 3 incite, goad, needle, irritate, irk, annoy, pester, harass, hector, badger, plague, nag, hound, carp at, cavil; henpeck: My parents are constantly prodding me to go out and get a job. --n. 4 jab, dig, poke, nudge, elbow, push: I was quite black and blue from those prods I was getting from Aunt Flora. 5 goad, spur; needle, rowel: These days electrified cattle prods are available. 6 stimulus, push, prompt, reminder, signal, cue: Calvin needed that prod to make him finally go home after the party.
prodigy n. 1 (child or girl or boy) genius, wonder child, Wunderkind, mastermind, talent, intellect, intellectual or mental giant, wizard, virtuoso, Colloq brain, Einstein, whiz-kid or whizz-kid, whiz or whizz, walking dictionary or encyclopedia or encyclopaedia: She was a prodigy at the age of six and went on to become a great concert performer. 2 wonder, marvel, phenomenon, sensation, miracle: Some regarded the painting Nude Descending a Staircase a prodigy of cubist art.
production n. 1 producing, manufacture, manufacturing, making, fabrication, preparation, origination, creation, output, putting out, development; formation, forming, forging, shaping, moulding, casting, assembly, building, construction: Our business is the production of insulating materials. 2 product, (end) result, work, effort, handiwork, output, opus, oeuvre: These paintings are clearly productions of a fertile imagination. 3 (in Britain) artistry, direction, staging; (in US and Canada) display, presentation, staging, mise en scne, setting: Both the acting and the production were superb. 4 drama, play, (stage or television or radio) show, performance; film, motion or moving picture, movie: Our repertory company is putting on a production of Othello next week.
profess v. 1 assert, claim, aver, asseverate, state, affirm, confirm, confess, declare, say, hold, maintain, present, offer, proffer, tender, set forth, put forward, pronounce, enounce, enunciate, announce, utter, vow, avow: He professed himself satisfied with the judge's decision. 2 pretend, lay claim, make a pretence, purport, act as if, simulate: They professed to be legitimate businessmen, but I was always suspicious.
proficiency n. facility, skill, talent, adeptness, expertise, expertness, skilfulness, aptitude, capability, ability, dexterity, capability, competence or competency, ingenuity, knack, savoir faire, Colloq know-how: The proficiency he displayed as a racing-car driver was second to none.
profitable adj. 1 beneficial, productive, lucrative, fruitful, (well-)paying, well-paid, worthwhile, effective, cost-effective, gainful, remunerative, money-making, rewarding: I had never thought of being a pavement artist as a profitable enterprise. Playing professional golf can be very profitable - if you win tournaments. 2 beneficial, helpful, useful, utilitarian, valuable, worthwhile, advantageous, productive, rewarding: She gave me a lot of good advice that I found profitable in my professional life.
profound adj. 1 deep, unfathomable, abstruse, recondite, arcane, esoteric, intricate, knotty, involved, tricky, inscrutable, indecipherable, cabbalistic, incomprehensible, obscure, subtle, occult, secret, cryptic, puzzling, enigmatic, mystifying, mysterious: Some aspects of the theory of thought are even too profound for many specialists. 2 learned, scholarly, intellectual, erudite, discerning, astute, sagacious, sage, wise, penetrating, sharp, keen, insightful, analytical, knowledgeable, informed, well-informed, well-read: Russell was one of the most profound thinkers of his day. 3 deep, great, intense, sincere; heartfelt, keen, acute, utter, extreme, overpowering, overwhelming: He gave a profound sigh and fell asleep at once. It is with profound regret that I must tender my resignation. 4 utter, complete, total, perfect, absolute, thorough, thoroughgoing, out-and-out, downright, consummate; awful, terrible: Her casual attitude stems from her profound lack of awareness of how important the work is. I was immediately struck by the profound silence in the house. Profound changes are under way.
profusion n. profuseness, quantity, abundance, plenty, plentifulness, plenteousness, bounty, copiousness, superabundance; mass, host, hoard, number, multitude, lot, mountain, load, mess, stack, pile, heap, agglomeration, conglomeration, accumulation, wealth, glut, surplus, oversupply, surfeit, plethora, superfluity, Formal nimiety: Ivy grew in profusion over the front of the house. We had never seen such a profusion of bric--brac as they had collected.
prognosticate v. 1 predict, foretell, prophesy, forecast, presage, divine, forebode: Those prophets of doom are always prognosticating disaster. 2 betoken, augur, herald, foreshadow, foretoken, announce, harbinger, signal, portend: The freshening breeze from the east prognosticates some rainy periods ahead.
progressive adj. 1 advancing, continuing, developing, increasing, growing, ongoing, continuous, step by step, gradual: The doctors noted the progressive deterioration in his condition. With the onset of spring, we shall see progressive improvement in the weather. 2 reformist, revisionist, liberal, radical, revolutionary, avant-garde, advanced, dynamic: Carrie was soon regarded as one of the more progressive thinkers of her day. --n. 3 reformist, reformer, revisionist, liberal, leftist, left-winger: Once a conservative, he did a complete volte-face after the war and became a progressive.
project n. 1 proposal, plan, scheme, design, layout: The project for housing low-income families had to be modified to allow for car parking. 2 activity, enterprise, programme, undertaking, venture, assignment, commitment, obligation, contract, engagement; occupation, job, work: What project will you move on to when you complete this one? --v. 3 plan, scheme, prepare, devise, conjure up, concoct, think up, contemplate, contrive, invent, work up or out, propose, present, outline, design, draft, draw up, delineate, describe, put forth or forward, Colloq cook up: In his theory, he projects a quite different causal relationship. 4 cast, hurl, fling, throw, toss, launch, propel, discharge; shoot, transmit; Colloq chuck, lob: A body projected into space will keep on travelling unless it strikes something. This device projects stereoscopic pictures on a screen. 5 jut out, stick out, protrude, stand out, bulge (out), extend (out), poke out, beetle (out), overhang: The cornice projects a full six feet over the street. 6 estimate, reckon, calculate, predict, forecast: The economists projected a decline in inflation over the coming months.
proliferation n. growth, increase, burgeoning or bourgeoning, expansion, spread, escalation, build-up, rise: Some attribute the increase in violent crime to the proliferation of hand-guns.
prominence n. 1 celebrity, eminence, fame, distinction, notability, reputation, pre-eminence, standing, position, rank, prestige, renown, repute, importance, weight, influence, account, name, consequence: They are a family of considerable prominence in the county. She rose to prominence as an actress just last year. 2 hill, hillock, rise, hummock, outcrop, outcropping, spur, tor, crag, arte, spine, ridge, peak, mount, pinnacle; headland, point, promontory: We planted our flag on the prominence and constructed a small cairn. 3 protuberance, projection, protrusion, growth, excrescence, swelling, tumefaction, tumescence, extrusion, outshoot, outgrowth, spur, bulge: If that prominence on your elbow doesn't disappear in a day or so, I should see a doctor.
promising adj. hopeful, encouraging, favourable, auspicious, positive, rosy, optimistic, propitious, cheering, full of promise, reassuring, heartening: I see a promising future for you as a dancer.
promptly adv. quickly, at once, straightaway or straight away, directly, right away, immediately, without delay or hesitation, unhesitatingly, swiftly, speedily, readily, instantly, instantaneously, punctually, expeditiously, with celerity, with alacrity, Colloq US and Canadian momentarily: If this bill is not paid promptly, we shall have to discontinue your credit arrangements.
pronouncement n. 1 statement, assertion, observation, comment, opinion, announcement, proclamation, pronunciamento, manifesto, declaration, avowal, affirmation, asseveration, averment, promulgation: Occasionally he would issue a pronouncement on the sad state of English usage. 2 judgement, decree, edict, proclamation, dictum, command, ukase, (papal) bull, imperative, order, ordinance: The authorities made several official pronouncements regarding travel restrictions.
propaganda n. 1 agitprop, disinformation, Newspeak, rumours, lies: The state-controlled media spread propaganda about minorities to foster nationalism. 2 advertising, promotion, publicity, public relations, puff, fanfare, Colloq puffery, ballyhoo, Slang hype, US hoop-la, whoop-de-do or whoop-de-doo: All that propaganda was merely to launch a new washing-powder!
properly adv. 1 appropriately, fittingly, correctly, well, becomingly, suitably, politely, decently, decorously, nicely: If you cannot behave properly I shall have to ask you to leave. 2 duly, appropriately, well, suitably, rightly, correctly, aptly: Are they properly equipped for the rescue mission?
prophet n. prophetess, oracle, forecaster, seer, soothsayer, clairvoyant, prognosticator, fortune-teller, augur, diviner, witch, warlock, sibyl, haruspex, vaticinator; (of doom) Cassandra: Statistically, the weather prophets have a fair record of accuracy.
proponent n. proposer, promoter, supporter, upholder, backer, subscriber, patron, espouser, adherent, enthusiast, champion, friend, partisan, defender, advocate, exponent, pleader, apologist, spokesman, spokeswoman, spokesperson: Ashley is a staunch proponent of the literacy movement.
propose v. 1 offer, tender, proffer; present, introduce, submit, advance, set forth, put forward, propound, bid, recommend, suggest, come up with, call attention to, broach, Brit table: Management proposed a wage increase of five per cent. The architect proposed that we consider an addition to the north wing. 2 offer, mean, intend, plan, expect, aim: We propose to make a start on the decorating once we have had our lunch. 3 nominate, name, put forward or forth, suggest, introduce, submit, put up: His boss proposed him for membership of the golf club.
propriety n. 1 correctness, properness, conformity, suitableness, appropriateness, suitability, aptness, fitness, seemliness, decorum; advisability, wisdom: I questioned the propriety of concealing this information from shareholders. 2 protocol, good or proper form, punctilio, etiquette, politeness, courtesy, politesse, refinement, sedateness, dignity, modesty, decorum, decency, breeding, respectability, gentility, grace, mannerliness: He always behaved with the utmost propriety in the presence of his aunt. 3 the proprieties. the social graces, the amenities, the civilities, formality or the formalities, social convention or the social conventions, social procedure or codes, accepted practice, tradition, ceremony, ritual: He only observes the proprieties when he wants to make a good impression.
prosecute v. 1 arraign, indict, charge, put on or bring to trial, try, take to court, sue, bring suit or action against, accuse, Brit put in the dock: She threatened to prosecute him for slander. 2 pursue, follow up or through, see or carry through, persist, go on with: Will the same policy will be prosecuted in other countries? 3 carry on or out, perform, do, exercise, conduct, follow, engage in, practise, continue: The government needs popular support if it is to continue to prosecute the war successfully.
prosper v. flourish, thrive, succeed, fare well, progress, get ahead, grow, develop; profit, gain, become wealthy, grow rich, make one's fortune, make good, Colloq make it, make one's pile: With hard work, thrift, and perseverance, MacIntosh prospered and was soon able to buy the house he wanted.
prostitution n. 1 whoredom, harlotry, the oldest profession, Mrs Warren's profession, streetwalking, vice: They argued strongly against the legalization of prostitution, saying that it would lead to a decline in public morals. 2 degradation, debasement, profanation, defilement, desecration, misuse, abuse, devaluation, lowering, perversion, corruption: Don't you regard pornography as a prostitution of the principle of freedom of expression?
protean adj. variable, ever-changing, multiform, variable, mutable, changeable, labile, polymorphous or polymorphic, kaleidoscopic: The magic ring gave him protean powers to appear now as an eagle, now as a serpent.
protector n. protectress, defender, benefactor, benefactress, patron, patroness, guardian (angel), champion, knight in shining armour, paladin, bodyguard, Slang Brit minder: She came to regard him as her friend and protector.
prototype n. 1 model, archetype, first, original, pattern, exemplar, precedent, mould: Many improvements were made as a result of tests on the original prototype. 2 example, instance, illustration, sample, norm, paragon, epitome, model, standard, analogue, referent, metaphor: Mrs Grundy is a common prototype for narrow-mindedness and prudishness.
protuberant adj. protrusive, protruding, bulging, gibbous, jutting, bulbous, swelling, swollen, turgid, tumescent, distended, tumid, extrusive, excrescent, extruding, projecting, beetling, overhanging, prominent: She has large brown eyes that are a little protuberant.
proverb n. saying, maxim, aphorism, saw, adage, apophthegm or apothegm, axiom, moral, moralism, homily, dictum, gnome, epigram, commonplace, platitude, truism, clich, bromide: According to the old proverb, 'A fool and his money are soon parted'.
provident adj. 1 cautious, wary, discreet, canny, prudent, careful, vigilant, prepared, far-sighted, thoughtful, wise, shrewd, sagacious, sage, judicious: In the fable, the grasshopper learns from the ant what it means to be provident. 2 frugal, economic(al), thrifty, prudent: Because he is not a provident man, he will always be poor.
provincial adj. 1 local, regional: Provincial administration is the responsibility of the sheriff. 2 uncultured, uncultivated, unsophisticated, limited, uninformed, nave, innocent, ingenuous, unpolished, unrefined, homespun, rustic, rude, country, parochial, insular, narrow-minded, boorish, loutish, cloddish, awkward, ungraceful, oafish, backwood(s), Brit parish pump, US small-town, Colloq US and Canadian hick, hick-town: These paintings are unlikely to appeal to provincial tastes. --n. 3 rustic, country cousin, (country) bumpkin, yokel, US and Canadian out-of-towner, hick, hayseed: One could tell they were provincials by the cut of their clothes.
proviso n. See provision, 2. above.
prowess n. 1 ability, skill, skilfulness, aptitude, adroitness, dexterity, dexterousness, adeptness, facility, finesse, expertise, mastery, genius, talent, know-how, ingenuity, capability, proficiency: Her prowess as a sculptor is unquestioned. 2 bravery, valour, courage, boldness, daring, intrepidity, dauntlessness, mettle, stout-heartedness, valiance, lion-heartedness, fearlessness, gallantry, doughtiness, fortitude: He was famed for his prowess in single combat.
prude n. prig, puritan, Mrs Grundy, Colloq goody-goody, US bluenose: He was a bit of a prude and disapproved of anything even slightly suggestive.
prudish adj. priggish, puritanical, old-maidish, prissy, prim, fussy, squeamish, strait-laced, stiff, rigid, over-nice, over-modest, over-coy, proper, demure, decorous, formal: Victorian society was both prudish and prurient.
pseudonym n. nom de plume, nom de guerre, alias, pen-name, stage name, incognito: 'George Eliot' was the pseudonym of Mary Ann Evans.
psychology n. (mental) make-up, constitution, attitude, behaviour, thought processes, thinking, psyche, nature, feeling(s), emotion(s), rationale, reasoning: I cannot understand the psychology of fascism.
publication n. 1 dissemination, promulgation, publicizing, publishing, proclamation, issuance, reporting, announcement, advertisement, advertising, pronouncement, airing, putting out, revelation, declaration, appearance: The publication of the news about the sale of the company was no surprise to us. 2 book, booklet, pamphlet, brochure, leaflet, broadside or broadsheet, flier or flyer, handbill, hand-out; periodical, magazine, journal, newsletter, newspaper, paper, broadsheet, tabloid; annual, semi-annual, quarterly, bimonthly, monthly, semi-monthly, fortnightly, biweekly, weekly, hebdomadal or hebdomedary, semi-weekly, daily: He buys every publication he can find dealing with model railways.
puerile adj. childish, immature, babyish, infantile, juvenile, silly, asinine, foolish, trivial, ridiculous, irresponsible, shallow, inconsequential, insignificant, US sophomoric: Stop that puerile horseplay and settle down.
pugnacious adj. aggressive, belligerent, combative, quarrelsome, bellicose, antagonistic, argumentative, hostile, litigious, contentious, disputatious, disagreeable, fractious, petulant, testy, irascible, hot-tempered, choleric, unfriendly, curmudgeonly, irritable, short-tempered: The Gothic tribes were very pugnacious, always ready to fight with little or no provocation.
pulley n. sheave, block: The rope is run through a system of pulleys, called a tackle, for lifting weights.
pulverize v. 1 powder, comminute, grind, crush, mill, granulate, crumble, break up, bray, pound, Technical triturate, levigate: This machine pulverizes the rock, after which the binding agents are added. 2 devastate, destroy, demolish, crush, smash, shatter, ruin, wreck, annihilate: The four battalions were pulverized in the attack.
punch n. 1 awl, auger, bodkin, perforator; drill, brace and bit: Use the punch to make another hole in your belt. --v. 2 pierce, stab, puncture, perforate; bore, drill: She uses a needle to punch a tiny hole in each end of the egg.
pungent adj. 1 spicy, hot, sharp, strong, penetrating, aromatic, seasoned, peppery, piquant, tangy, flavourful, tasty, sapid: The pungent odours of devilled kidneys dominated the dining-room. 2 sharp, biting, stinging, caustic, severe, astringent, stern, acrid, harsh, sour, acid, tart, acrimonious, bitter, cutting, keen, barbed, trenchant, scathing, incisive, mordant, sarcastic: This week's Review carries a pungent criticism of his new novel. 3 distressing, upsetting, poignant, painful, hurtful, penetrating, piercing, stabbing, intense, severe, acute, agonizing, oppressive, excruciating, racking, consuming: Only when surgery eased the pressure was he relieved of the pungent pain.
punitive adj. chastening, castigatory, disciplinary, retributive, punitory, retaliatory, correctional: A punitive expedition was sent there to quell the colonists' uprising.
puny adj. 1 small, little, insignificant, petty, unimportant, inconsequential, paltry, trivial, trifling, minor, negligible, nugatory, of little or no account, inferior, worthless, useless, Colloq piddling, Slang Brit not much cop: Farr's contribution to the success of the business was really quite puny. 2 small, little, diminutive, tiny, minute: Mattson looks so puny alongside that sumo wrestler. 3 weak, feeble, frail, sickly, weakly, underfed, undernourished, undersized, underdeveloped, stunted, dwarf, midget, pygmy: You cannot expect such a puny chap to lift such a great weight.
purchase v. 1 buy, acquire, procure, obtain, get, secure, pay for: He recently purchased a new personal computer and cannot get it to work. Not long ago, a shilling purchased a loaf of bread. 2 win, gain, achieve, realize, attain, obtain: His liberty was purchased by the betrayal of his colleagues. --n. 3 acquisition, acquiring, buying, purchasing, obtaining, securing, procurement: The purchase of books for the university library is the responsibility of Monica Turnbull. 4 buy, acquisition: Tom returned from the shop carrying his purchases. 5 grip, hold, support, toe-hold, foothold, grasp; leverage, position, advantage, edge: The climber was having trouble getting a good purchase on the icy ledge.
purge v. 1 cleanse, purify, clean (out), clear, scour (out), depurate, deterge, wash (out): The tanks must be purged before filling them with the new fuel. 2 eject, eradicate, expel, eliminate, get rid of, dismiss, clear out or away, sweep away or out, oust, remove, rout out, weed out, root out; do away with, exterminate, liquidate, kill, destroy: After the coup, the old guard was purged from all the governmental agencies. The rebels purged the entire council of elders. 3 clear, exonerate, absolve, forgive, purify, pardon, exculpate: He was given every opportunity to purge himself of the charge of contempt of court. --n. 4 ejection, eradication, expulsion, elimination, dismissal, clearing out or away, ousting, ouster, removal, routing out, weeding out, rooting out, unseating; defenestration; extermination, liquidation, killing, murder, slaughter: The bloody purge of dissidents was carried out by the secret police. 5 See purgative, 1, above.
purity n. 1 pureness, faultlessness, correctness, flawlessness, perfection, spotlessness, cleanness, cleanliness, clarity; healthfulness, wholesomeness, salubrity; innocuousness, harmlessness: The purity of the drinking-water has been affected by the nearby chemical plant. 2 chastity, chasteness, virginity, virtuousness, virtue, morality, propriety, honesty, integrity, rectitude, properness, innocence, guilelessness, decency, decorousness, modesty, blamelessness, sinlessness: We never had any reason to doubt the purity of their character.
purse n. 1 pouch, (money-)bag, wallet, pocket, Dialect poke, Highland dress sporran, US and Canadian (woman's) handbag, pocketbook, bag: The money goes out so fast I think there is a hole in my purse. 2 money, wealth, resources, funds, finances, exchequer, treasury, capital, revenue, income, means, cash, riches; pounds, shillings, and pence, LSD, dollars, shekels, Derogatory Mammon, pelf, (filthy) lucre, US almighty dollar, Slang Brit ready or readies, lolly, dosh, loot, dough, US and Canadian bucks, scratch: The spread of capitalism shows that the power of a man's purse can transcend his political idealism. 3 prize, reward, award, present, gift: The purse for the next race will be 5,000 guineas. --v. 4 pucker (up), contract, wrinkle, compress, press together: Robert pursed his lips thoughtfully.
pushover n. 1 sure thing, Colloq piece of cake, child's play, snap, cinch, picnic, walk-over, US breeze, Slang cinch, Brit doddle, US lead-pipe cinch: The Latin exam was a pushover. 2 Colloq walk-over, chump, soft touch, soft or easy mark, easy prey or game, Slang patsy, sucker, stooge, sap, Brit mug, US and Canadian milquetoast: I spotted him at once as a pushover for the find-the-lady con.
put-down n. dig, sneer, snub, disparaging or denigrating remark, slight, offence, insult: The worst put-down was to tell her she looks like her sister, whom she hates.
put-up adj. (secretly) preconceived, prearranged, plotted, preconcerted: If the butler had a hand in it, you know it was a put-up job.
quack n. 1 charlatan, impostor, pretender, fake(r), fraud, Colloq phoney or US also phony: The quack diagnosed Franny as having appendicitis, but it turned out that she was pregnant. --adj. 2 fake, fraudulent, sham, counterfeit, Colloq phoney or US also phony: Are you still going to see that quack doctor the one who told you to take aspirin to relieve the pain from your ulcer?
qualified adj. 1 able, suitable, capable, competent, fit, fitted, equipped, prepared, ready, trained, proficient, accomplished, expert, talented, adept, skilful, skilled, experienced, practised, knowledgeable, well-informed: Is Kimble qualified to become foreman? 2 contingent, conditional, restricted, modified, limited, provisional: The chairman has given his qualified approval to the scheme.
quandary n. dilemma, predicament, difficulty, plight, cleft stick, uncertainty: The management is in a quandary: should it risk overstretching the company by making further capital investment, or should it risk being left behind by its competitors by playing safe?
quarry n. prey, game, prize, object: The hunter's dogs had run their quarry to ground. Wealthy widows were regarded as fair quarry by the swindlers.
quash v. 1 annul, nullify, void, declare or render null and void, invalidate, revoke, vacate, set aside, rescind, cancel, reject, throw out, reverse, overthrow, discharge, overrule: When the real culprit confessed, my conviction was quashed and I was set free. 2 suppress, subdue, quell, put down, squelch, repress, overthrow, crush, overwhelm: The rebellion was quashed by the secret police.
queen n. 1 sovereign, monarch, ruler; empress; queen consort; queen mother; queen dowager: She was absolutely thrilled when she was invited to a garden party at Buckingham Palace and met the Queen. 2 beauty queen, movie queen, star, prima donna, diva; epitome, model, idol, leading light, cynosure, leader: At the height of her career, she was known as 'the Queen of the Silver Screen'. 'Queen of the Antilles' was once a nickname of Cuba.
querulous adj. complaining, carping, critical, criticizing, hypercritical, fault-finding, finicky, finical, fussy, over-particular, censorious, petulant, whining, murmuring, grumbling, peevish, testy, touchy, irritable, irritated, annoyed, piqued, in a pique, irascible, fractious, perverse, quarrelsome, ill-natured, ill-humoured, cantankerous, curmudgeonly, crusty, crotchety, fretful, bad-tempered, ill-tempered, waspish, crabby, cross, splenetic, choleric, sour, dyspeptic, grumpy, Colloq grousing, pernickety or US also persnickety, Slang bitching: He objected to almost all the television programmes and sent querulous letters to the broadcasters telling them so.
questionable adj. doubtful, dubious, debatable, moot, disputable, borderline, suspect, suspicious, shady; open to question, in question, in dispute, problematic(al), uncertain, arguable, unsure, unreliable, ambiguous: The evidence shows that the defendant engaged in questionable banking practices while a director of Offshore Ltd. The advantages of quick divorce are questionable.
quicken v. 1 accelerate, hasten, speed up: As we neared the house, our pace quickened. 2 expedite, hurry, accelerate, hasten, speed (up): We did everything we could to quicken her departure. 3 stimulate, arouse, kindle, spark, invigorate, excite, animate, vitalize, vivify, galvanize, enliven, awaken, energize, revive, resuscitate, reinvigorate: Olivia's inspiring lectures quickened the imagination of everyone who heard them.
quiet adj. 1 silent, soundless, noiseless, hushed, still: We have to be very quiet so as not to wake the children. 2 still, serene, silent, peaceful, unperturbed, calm, tranquil, placid, pacific, smooth, mild, restful, unagitated: The sea was very quiet as we rowed towards the beach. 3 dormant, quiescent, inactive, retired, withdrawn, unobtrusive: His last days were spent living a quiet life in the Outer Hebrides. 4 still, motionless, unmoving, fixed, stationary, at rest, inactive, composed, temperate, unexcited, calm: There was a knock at the door and everyone suddenly became quiet. --n. 5 silence, stillness, soundlessness, noiselessness, hush, quietness, quietude, ease, rest, calmness, serenity, tranquillity, peace, peace of mind, repose: In the quiet of the cave I could hear my heart beating. --v. 6 See quieten, below.
quip n. 1 (bon) mot, witticism, sally, jest, ad lib, joke, gibe, barb, aphorism, epigram, apophthegm or apothegm, pun, double entendre, equivoque or equivoke, Colloq gag, one-liner, crack, wisecrack, wheeze, chestnut: In his worst quip he attributed the breakdown of his computer to a slipped diskette. --v. 2 joke, jest, gibe, Colloq wisecrack, US crack wise: As Mae West quipped, 'It's not the men in my life that count; it's the life in my men'.
quiver v. 1 shake, tremble, vibrate, shiver, quaver; shudder, tremor, oscillate, fluctuate, wobble: He felt his lips quivering as he told her that he was dying. The outcome of the contest quivered in the balance. --n. 2 tremble, quaver, shudder, spasm, shake, tremor, shiver: Pierced by the dart, the tiny bird fell to the earth, gave a little quiver, and lay still.
quota n. apportionment, portion, allotment, allocation, allowance, ration, share, part, proportion, percentage, equity, interest, Colloq cut: Each shareholder is allowed a quota of the new shares based on the number now held.
rabble-rouser n. agitator, demagogue, instigator, inciter, firebrand, incendiary, radical, troublemaker, agent provocateur, revolutionary, insurrectionist, Colloq hell-raiser: The crowd was whipped into a frenzy by a rabble-rouser who was not identified.
racial adj. ethnic, genetic, genealogical, ethnological, folk; tribal; national: Bigots emphasize racial differences rather than racial similarities.
raconteur n. storyteller, anecdotalist or anecdotist, narrator, relater or relator, Colloq spinner of yarns: The after-dinner speaker was a marvellous raconteur with a wealth of stories about the theatre.
radiate v. 1 shine, beam, burn, blaze, gleam, glow, shimmer, glisten, sparkle, dazzle, glitter, coruscate, scintillate, twinkle: The jewel seemed to radiate with an inner light. 2 emanate, disseminate, disperse, spread, diffuse, shed, send out, emit, give off or out, Rare irradiate: He radiated goodwill the way a fire radiates heat and light.
raffle n. lottery, draw, sweepstake or US sweepstakes, sweep or US sweeps: The church is holding a raffle for a new car next week.
rage n. 1 anger, fury, wrath, ire, high dudgeon, exasperation, vehemence, passion: Imagine her rage when Simon phoned to say that he couldn't make it home for dinner! 2 fury, passion, frenzy, hysterics, tantrum, fit, temper, Brit paddy or paddywhack or paddywack, Colloq Brit wax: He flies into a rage if Grace is as little as five minutes late for an appointment. 3 fashion, craze, vogue, the (latest or newest) thing, last word, dernier cri, mode, Colloq fad: Miniskirts were all the rage in the 1960s. --v. 4 rant, rave, storm, go mad or crazy or bonkers or wild or out of one's mind, go berserk, run amok or amuck, behave or act or be like one possessed, fret, be beside oneself (with anger or fury), lose one's temper, go berserk, have a tantrum, fulminate, explode; fume, foam at the mouth, stew, smoulder, boil, seethe, simmer, Colloq have kittens, lose one's cool, fly off the handle, go off the deep end, Slang get into or work oneself up into a lather or stew or sweat, get all worked up, blow one's top, blow a gasket, blow up, flip one's top or lid, hit the ceiling or roof, freak out, be fit to be tied, be ready for a strait-jacket, Brit throw a wobbly, US and Canadian blow one's stack, flip one's wig, blow a fuse, have a haemorrhage, go ape, do a slow burn, have a conniption fit: Father raged for hours when he found that Donald had borrowed the car without permission.
rail n. 1 bar, rod, handrail, foot-rail , towel-rail; railing, banisters, balustrade, baluster, fence: Don't lean on the rail or it will break. 2 by or via rail. by train, by railway or US also railroad: We travelled by rail from Paris to Geneva.
railway n. train, rail, rolling-stock, Archaic iron horse, US railroad: Railway service could be improved on some suburban lines. Diamond Jim Brady, the American millionaire, made his money from the railway.
rake n. libertine, womanizer, lecher, rou, playboy, ladies' man, Don Juan, Casanova, Lothario, debauchee, voluptuary, profligate, prodigal; scoundrel, rascal, cad, Archaic rakehell, masher; Colloq lady-killer, Colloq old-fashioned wolf, Brit bounder: Lady Anne was led stray by some young rake, a friend of the Prince Regent's.
ram v. 1 jam, force, drive, cram, crowd, pack, compress, stuff, squeeze, thrust, tamp, pound, hammer: We rammed as much filler as we could into the crevices. 2 butt, bump, strike, hit, collide with, dash, crash, slam: Their car rammed into mine in the garage.
ramp n. slope, grade, gradient, incline; rise, ascent, acclivity; descent, dip, declivity: There is a special ramp in the theatre for wheelchair access.
ramshackle adj. dilapidated, tumbledown, crumbling, broken-down, rickety, unsteady, jerry-built, decrepit, flimsy, shaky, unstable, tottering, unsubstantial or insubstantial, ruined, in disrepair, beyond repair, run-down, neglected, derelict: He lives in a ramshackle hut on the outskirts of town.
random adj. 1 haphazard, chance, fortuitous, serendipitous, aleatory, arbitrary, casual, stray, occasional, indefinite, indiscriminate, non-specific, unspecific, unspecified, unordered, unorganized, undirected, unpremeditated, unplanned, accidental, uncalculated, unsystematic, adventitious, incidental, hit-or-miss: He used a computer program to generate random numbers. A random selection of slips was drawn from the drum and Madelaine's name was on one of them. 2 at random. randomly, haphazardly, fortuitously, by chance, serendipitously, arbitrarily, casually, occasionally, (every) now and then, (every) once in a while, irregularly, indefinitely, erratically, indiscriminately, unsystematically, adventitiously, incidentally, unpremeditatedly: They picked names from a hat at random. They drove up and down the road, firing at random.
rank adj. 1 lush, luxuriant, abundant, flourishing, profuse, prolific, dense, superabundant, exuberant, fertile, productive, fructuous: The expedition could hardly make its way through the rank undergrowth of th jungle. 2 corrupt, foul, low, base, gross; downright, utter, sheer, absolute, complete, out-and-out, blatant, flagrant, unalloyed, unmitigated, undiluted: I cannot understand the rank treachery of the man after all that we have done for him. I ventured my opinion, even though a rank outsider. 3 offensive, loathsome, disgusting, gross, foul, corrupt, indecent, shocking, immodest, indecorous, shameless, risqu, lurid, off colour, outrageous, blue, nasty, vulgar, vile, dirty, filthy, smutty, scatological, pornographic, obscene: Those bigots always resort to the rank vocabulary of malice and hate. In a secret cupboard was a collection of the rankest literature. 4 offensive, loathsome, disgusting, gross, foul, foul-smelling, smelly, rancid, noisome, stinking, reeky, reeking, mephitic, miasmic or miasmal or miasmatic(al), fetid or foetid, noxious, rotten, putrid, musty, stale, disagreeable, strong, pungent: The rank stench from the open sewers pervades the air in those pockets of poverty.
ransom n. 1 redemption, rescue, deliverance; release, liberation: The envoy was held to ransom by a fanatical band of zealots. 2 payment, payout, pay-off, price: The police refuse to reveal the amount of the ransom given to the kidnappers. --v. 3 redeem, rescue, release, deliver: The boy was ransomed for 10,000.
rapacity n. greed, greediness, cupidity, covetousness, avarice, acquisitiveness, predaciousness, ravenousness, voracity, voraciousness, insatiability, insatiableness, rapaciousness: The rapacity of the invading hordes of Mongols knew no bounds.
rapidly adv. 1 quickly, fast, swiftly, speedily, briskly, expeditiously, like a shot, at the speed of light, double-quick, at full speed, like one possessed, at a gallop, tantivy, Colloq like blazes, like (greased) lightning, US lickety-split, Slang like a bat out of hell, like mad: He cycled down the High Street as rapidly as he could go. 2 promptly, instantly, instantaneously, instanter, without delay, at once, straight away, right away, in a moment, in a trice, like a shot, in a wink, in (less than) no time, double-quick, in a flash, at the speed of light, before you (can) turn around, Colloq in a jiffy, in two shakes (of a lamb's tail), like (greased) lightning, before you can say 'Jack Robinson', US and Canadian (right) off the bat, lickety-split, Slang like a bat out of hell: When I mentioned that you were coming, she left rapidly.
rapture n. ecstasy, delight, joy, joyfulness, joyousness, pleasure, exaltation, elation, thrill, enchantment, euphoria, beatitude, transport, enchantment: Nothing could compare with the rapture he felt at seeing his daughter win the Nobel prize.
rarefied adj. 1 thin, lean, attenuated, diluted, sparse, scant, scanty: As we climbed higher, the rarefied atmosphere made breathing more difficult. 2 exalted, lofty, elevated, high, sublime, noble, high: I feel out of place in the rarefied atmosphere of academia. 3 cliquish, clannish, exclusive, private, select, esoteric: Clarence copes well in the rarefied atmosphere of Whitehall's corridors of power.
rash adj. impetuous, impulsive, unthinking, thoughtless, foolhardy, unconsidered, ill-considered, ill-advised, injudicious, imprudent, indiscreet, precipitate, hasty, careless, heedless, reckless, headlong, wild, madcap, hare-brained, hotheaded, adventurous, quixotic, venturesome, audacious, bold, dashing, brash, devil-may-care: It was rash of him to try to sail round the world single-handed, but he did it.
rate v. scold, berate, reprimand, rebuke, reproach, reprove, take to task, upbraid, censure, Colloq bawl out, dress down, US and Canadian chew out: I was rated severely for staying out after midnight.
ration n. 1 share, quota, allotment, portion, helping, part, provision, measure, dole, percentage, amount: Each person is permitted a weekly fixed ration of butter, sugar, coffee, meat, etc. We shall have to go on short rations till we are rescued. 2 rations. supplies, provisions, food, provender, victuals, viands, eatables, edibles, comestibles, Brit commons: It was not till the third week with our rations running low that we really began to worry. --v. 3 Often, ration out. allot, apportion, dole (out), give out, distribute, deal out, mete out, parcel out, measure out, hand out: As water was in short supply, we had to ration it. One cup was rationed out to each of us every morning. 4 budget, schedule, restrict, control, limit: Water had to be rationed to one cup a day for each of us.
rattle v. 1 clatter: An acorn dropped from an overhanging tree and rattled down the tin roof. 2 shake, vibrate, jar, joggle, jiggle: The wind was strong enough to rattle the windows in their frames. 3 unnerve, disconcert, discomfit, disturb, perturb, shake, discountenance, upset, agitate, put off, Chiefly US and Canadian faze: They are only trying to rattle us by saying that we might lose our jobs if we strike. 4 jounce, bounce, bump, jolt, speed, hurtle: The stagecoach came rattling down the road, swaying wildly. 5 rattle off. recite, list, utter, reel off, run through, enumerate, call off: The announcer rattled off a long list of trains cancelled because of the storm. 6 rattle on. chatter, babble, jabber, gibber, prate, prattle, blabber, cackle, blather, ramble, Chiefly Brit witter, natter, Slang US run off at the mouth: The speaker kept rattling on and on about the delights of collecting beer cans. --n. 7 clatter, racket, noise; rale or rle, crackle, crackling; death-rattle: I heard the rattle of the beans and knew you were about to grind the coffee. The doctor said he didn't like the rattle in my chest. 8 clapper, sistrum, US noise-maker: Rattles have been used as musical instruments for thousands of years.
ravage v. 1 lay waste, devastate, ruin, destroy, demolish, raze, wreck, wreak havoc (up)on, damage: The hurricane ravaged outlying areas but did little damage in the city. 2 pillage, plunder, despoil, ransack, sack, loot: The police tried to prevent hooligans from ravaging the shops in the town centre. --n. 3 Usually, ravages. destruction, damage, depredation(s), devastation, wrecking, ruin, demolition: All about us we saw the ravages of war.
raving adj. 1 mad, insane, berserk, raging, crazy, crazed, irrational, manic, maniacal, frantic, frenzied, delirious, hysterical; out of one's mind or head: He stood there shouting and screaming, like a raving lunatic. 2 extraordinary, outstanding, unusual, rare, uncommon, phenomenal, great, striking, ravishing, Colloq stunning: Diana had been a raving beauty in her time. --n. 3 Often, ravings. rant, ranting, bombast, pomposity, grandiloquence, magniloquence, rodomontade, rhetoric, bluster, blustering, claptrap, balderdash, puffery, bunkum, flatulence, hyperbole, vapouring, fustian, Colloq hot air, bunk: Why must we be subjected to the ravings of this politician? 4 gabble, babble, babbling, gibberish, Colloq gab: This is nothing more than the raving of a maniac.
raw-boned adj. gaunt, lean, gangling, thin, skinny, spare, meagre, scrawny, underfed, bony, emaciated, half-starved, wasted, hollow-cheeked, cadaverous: They'll take that raw-boned youngster into the army and put some meat on him.
reaction n. 1 response, reply, answer, effect, feedback: Did you get any reaction when you told her I had been arrested? Her reaction was to turn over and go back to sleep. 2 repulsion, resistance, counteraction, counterbalance, compensation: A rocket derives forward thrust by reaction against its own exhaust, hence can operate in a vacuum. 3 retaliation, reciprocation, reprisal, revenge: He shot her in reaction to her announcement that she was leaving him.
readily adv. 1 cheerfully, willingly, eagerly, ungrudgingly, unhesitatingly, freely, gladly, happily, agreeably, graciously, charitably: He always gave readily of his time to anyone who sought his help, and we shall miss him sorely. 2 effortlessly, easily, smoothly, without difficulty: I was able to get the wheel off readily enough, getting it back on was the problem. 3 promptly, quickly, speedily, swiftly, apace, at once, without delay, in no time, immediately, instantly, instantaneously, instanter, straight away, right away, at or on short notice, Colloq pronto: The police came readily but were unable to catch the thieves, who had already escaped.
real adj. 1 genuine, true, actual, authentic, verified, verifiable, legitimate, right, bona fide, official; legal, legitimate, licit, natural, valid, veritable: He says that his name is Smith, but what is his real name? Her diamonds are not real. It has been proved beyond the shadow of a doubt that he is the real father. 2 genuine, actual, true, existent, authentic, natural; material, physical, tangible, palpable, corporeal: How can one distinguish between the real object and what one sees, which is merely its image? 3 genuine, sincere, heartfelt, true, actual, unfeigned, unaffected, earnest, honest, truthful, legitimate, valid: Deirdre's face is so impassive that it is impossible to tell what her real feelings are. What's the real reason that you're here? 4 genuine, actual, true, loyal, trustworthy, trusted, honest: You are a real friend, and I know I can count on you. 5 intrinsic, actual, true, genuine, proper, essential: The 150 million sale of the company fell significantly below its real value. --adv. 6 See really, below.
realize v. 1 make real, effect, bring about, make happen, make a reality, actualize, accomplish, produce, achieve, fulfil, materialize, effectuate: Many of Leonardo da Vinci's inventions were not realized in his lifetime. 2 understand, appreciate, comprehend, be aware of, conceive of, grasp, perceive, discern, be or become conscious or aware or appreciative of, recognize, see, Colloq catch on (to), cotton (on) to, Brit twig: Did Clare fully realize the consequences of her actions? 3 return, gain, clear, profit, make, earn, bring or take in, net, produce, get: We have realized a substantial profit on the sale of the shares bought when the company was privatized.
reap v. 1 harvest, garner, glean, gather (in), mow, take in or up: The land was fertile, and a bountiful crop was reaped. As ye sow, so shall ye reap. 2 profit, bring in, gain, procure, acquire, get, obtain, take in: It is impossible to reap much when there is so small a margin between cost and selling price.
reasonable adj. 1 sensible, rational, sane, logical, sober, sound, judicious, wise, intelligent, thinking: I had always thought Philip a reasonable man. 2 credible, believable, plausible, tenable, reasoned, arguable, well-thought-out, well-grounded: Her story about having found the child wandering in the street doesn't sound very reasonable to me. 3 moderate, tolerable, acceptable, within reason, equitable, fair; inexpensive, unexcessive, unextravagant, economical, conservative: Considering inflation, we thought the price increases were reasonable. 4 appropriate, suitable, proper, sensible, right: The car was travelling at a reasonable speed, considering conditions.
rebel v. 1 revolt, mutiny, rise up: The people will rebel if subjected to more oppression. 2 Often, rebel against. defy, flout, dare, challenge; disobey, dissent: It is in the nature of young people to rebel against authority and the status quo. --n. 3 revolutionary, revolutionist, insurgent, insurrrectionist, mutineer, resister, resistance fighter, freedom fighter: We call ourselves fighters for justice, but the unjust call us rebels and traitors. 4 heretic, nonconformist, apostate, dissenter, recusant, schismatic: James's problem was that he was a rebel without a cause.
rebound v. 1 spring back, bounce, recoil, ricochet, resile: The ball rebounded from the goalpost. --n. 2 bounce, recoil, ricochet, return, comeback, repercussion, backlash, reflex: Carter caught the ball on the rebound.
rebuttal n. answer, reply, retort, response, rejoinder, counter-argument, riposte, retaliation, denial, refutation, contradiction, confutation, Colloq comeback: In rebuttal, the defence tried to prove that the witness for the prosecution had been bribed.
recapitulate v. summarize, sum up; repeat, go over (again), reiterate, restate, review; recount, enumerate, recite, relate, list, Colloq recap: I shall begin by recapitulating some of the issues which I covered in my last lecture.
recent adj. late, latest, new, just out, brand-new, fresh; current, modern, up to date, late-model: This feature is now supplied as standard on all our more recent models. Recent arrivals will be interviewed by the committee.
recess n. 1 alcove, niche, nook, cranny, bay, hollow: The statuette fits perfectly in that recess outside the library. 2 respite, rest, interlude, time off, break, intermission, breather, breathing-spell, pause; holiday, vacation: A brief recess has been scheduled to allow us to relax before continuing. 3 recesses. innermost reaches, corners, secret places, depths, penetralia: I searched for her name in the recesses of my mind.
reciprocal adj. mutual, exchanged, returned, complementary, correlative, common, shared, joint, requited: The reciprocal courtesies enjoyed among our neighbours benefit us all.
recite v. 1 quote, repeat, present: In the old days, children were often called upon to recite poems they had learned by heart. 2 report, narrate, recount, relate, tell, describe, detail, chronicle, list, share, recapitulate, repeat, Colloq recap: Again I recited every particular of the hold-up that I could recall.
reclaim v. restore, recover, rescue, redeem, salvage, save, regain, retrieve, regenerate, rejuvenate: Much of the farmland was reclaimed from the sea.
recognize v. 1 identify, detect, place, recall, remember, recollect, know (again): I recognized him from seeing his picture in the newspaper. 2 acknowledge, perceive, understand, realize, see, admit, accept, own, concede, allow, grant, appreciate, respect, be aware of: He refuses to recognize that he is responsible for his own actions. 3 approve, sanction, endorse, accept, validate, ratify: A totalitarian government refuses to recognize the rights of the individual. 4 honour, give recognition to, salute, show gratitude or appreciation, reward, distinguish, pay respect, do homage: The society recognizes Dr Jackson for his many contributions to science.
recommend v. 1 counsel, advise, guide, urge, exhort, suggest, advocate, propose, (put) forward, propound, persuade: He recommended that the entire system should be changed. 2 endorse, praise, commend, mention favourably, vouch for, second, subscribe to, back, push, favour, approve, underwrite, stand up for, support, promote, Colloq tout, plug: I wish Charles would stop recommending his brother-in-law for a job with us. 3 make attractive or advisable or interesting or acceptable: Wendover has little to recommend it as a tourist spot.
recondite adj. abstruse, arcane, obscure, esoteric, deep, profound, incomprehensible, unfathomable, impenetrable, undecipherable, opaque, dark, occult, cabbalistic or cabalistic or kabbalistic, inexplicable, enigmatic: I have difficulty following the more recondite aspects of information theory.
recount v. 1 relate, narrate, tell, recite, report, communicate, impart, unfold: The old man recounted for us the legend of the two-headed lamb. 2 particularize, review, detail, describe, enumerate, specify: Must I recount every particular all over again?
recovery n. 1 recuperation, convalescence, restoration, improvement, healing, rally, turn for the better; rise, revival, increase, amelioration, bettering, betterment, advance, gain, advance, advancement, Colloq pick-up, comeback: After so serious an illness, Bentley has made a remarkable recovery. Share prices staged a recovery after the reduction in interest rates. 2 retrieval, recouping, repossession, retaking, restoration, reclamation; recapture, redemption: The recovery of the stolen gems was credited to excellent detective work. Hard fighting resulted in the recovery of the land west of the river. 3 salvage, delivery, deliverance, rescue, return, saving, reclamation, retrieval: Recovery of the climbers' bodies from the ravine was very hazardous.
rectify v. correct, revise, redress, put or set right, cure, repair, remedy, improve, emend, fix, adjust, square, ameliorate: What do you intend to do to rectify the damage you have done?
recur v. return, happen or occur again, reoccur, repeat, come (back) again, reappear: The condition recurred after a year, and he was obliged to have another operation.
redolent adj. 1 fragrant, sweet-smelling, aromatic, perfumed, odorous, scented, savoury: The entire house was redolent with the odour of pine needles. 2 redolent with or of. reminiscent of, suggestive of, evocative of, remindful of, characteristic of, having the earmarks or hallmark of: The style of the film is redolent of 1930s Hollywood.
reel v. 1 stagger, totter, waver, stumble, lurch, falter, roll, rock, sway, flounder, pitch: Chris came reeling down the lane, dead drunk. 2 reel off. list, recite, rattle off, enumerate, review, itemize, name, read off, call off, run through, run over: Under questioning, the suspect began to reel off the names of his accomplices.
refined adj. 1 cultivated, cultured, civilized, polished, sophisticated, urbane, elegant, well-bred, genteel, courtly, ladylike, gentlemanly, polite, courteous, mannerly, well-mannered, gracious, gentle, noble, aristocratic, dignified, elevated, Colloq posh: It is seldom that I find myself in such refined company. 2 subtle, discriminating, discerning, sensitive, fastidious, nice, precise, exacting, cultured, educated, cultivated, knowledgeable, advanced, sophisticated: Her taste in the visual arts is fairly refined, but she knows little about music. 3 exact, precise, fine, subtle, sensitive, nice, sophisticated: In his poetry one encounters an extremely refined use of metaphor. These new devices are far more refined than any previously available. 4 purified, clarified, cleansed, pure, clean; distilled: Only refined chemicals may be used in pharmaceuticals.
reflective adj. reflecting, thoughtful, pensive, contemplative, meditating, musing, meditative, cogitating, cogitative, ruminating, deliberative, deliberating, pondering: I found Alan in a reflective mood, staring out of the window.
refrain n. melody, song, tune, chorus, burden, reprise: It was one of those long boring folk songs with a refrain that we were all supposed to join in.
refrigerate v. cool, chill, keep cool or cold or chilled, ice, freeze: The souffl must be refrigerated for three hours to allow it to set.
refusal n. 1 denial, rejection, disapproval, turn-down: She pleaded against the grand vizier's refusal to grant amnesty to her brother. 2 option, choice, privilege, disposal: We were promised first refusal on the house should it come on the market.
regale v. entertain, amuse, delight, divert, indulge, please, gratify, captivate, fascinate, entrance, enchant, spellbind, bewitch, charm, enrapture: She regaled them with entertaining tales of her travels.
regardless adj. 1 Sometimes, regardless of. despite, notwithstanding; in spite of, heedless of, Non-Standard irregardless: Regardless of her father's protestations, she continued to go out with William. --adv. 2 notwithstanding, nevertheless, no matter what, in any event, in any case, at all events, anyway, anyhow, Non-Standard irregardless: She heard his threats but is going out with William regardless.
register n. 1 record, roll, roster, rota, catalogue, annal(s), archive(s), journal, daybook, diary, appointment book, calendar, chronicle, schedule, programme, directory, ledger, file, index, inventory, list, listing, poll, tally,: The council holds a register of all houses sold since 1900 with the names of both sellers and buyers. 2 cash register, till, money box, cash-box: The money in the register does not agree with the figures for receipts. --v. 3 record, write or jot or take or put or set down, list, enrol, sign in or on or up, enter, catalogue, log, index, chronicle, note, make or take note (of): All transactions must be registered. 4 show, display, express, indicate, manifest, reveal, betray, divulge, record, reflect: James pretended to like my book, but his contempt for it was registered on his face. 5 make known, inform of, advise, transmit, communicate, record, note, make note of, report, write down, minute: I wish to register my disapproval of the way prisoners are treated here. 6 check in, sign in or on, log in: In the US, all aliens are required to register each year in January. We registered in the hotel as man and wife. 7 Sometimes, register with or on. sink in, impress, become apparent (to), make an impression (on), come home (to), get through (to); dawn on or upon, occur to: I heard what you said, but it just didn't register. The name didn't register with me at first, but I now know who you are. 8 indicate, read, mark, represent, measure, point to, specify, exhibit, show, manifest: The earthquake registered 7 on the Richter scale.
regularity n. 1 consistency, constancy, uniformity, evenness, sameness, symmetry, balance, harmony, harmoniousness, orderliness, order, stability, predictability: To the casual observer, nothing interferes with the regularity of planetary movement. 2 routine, reliability, dependability, steadiness, invariability; pace, rhythm, cadence: Mr Warbridge listens to the six o'clock evening news with unfailing regularity. Our business depends on the regularity of the postal service. The regularity of the ticking of the clock is driving me mad.
rehabilitate v. 1 restore, save, reclaim, rescue, redeem, re-establish, reinstate, re-educate, reorient, reform, US straighten out, Colloq US rehab: They have had marked success at rehabilitating criminals. 2 renew, redecorate, renovate, refurbish, restore, fix (up), repair, reconstruct, rebuild, change, transform: Sam has plans to rehabilitate vintage cars for a living.
reign n. 1 rule, sovereignty, ascendancy, power, hegemony, influence, command, suzerainty, administration, jurisdiction, leadership, government, direction, control, domination, mastery; kingdom, monarchy, empire: During her reign, the kingdom saw its greatest prosperity. --v. 2 rule, control, command, govern, lead, direct, dominate, supervise, manage, hold sway, wear the crown, wield the sceptre, occupy the throne, Colloq run the show, rule the roost, Slang call the shots: During the sixth Egyptian dynasty, Pepi II Nefektare reigned for 94 years, the longest in recorded history. 3 prevail, be or become prevalent, predominate, hold sway, obtain, be or become rampant, be or become universal: An argument broke out, which developed into a fist fight, and soon pandemonium reigned.
reinforcement n. 1 buttress, support, prop, brace, stay, bolster: This iron reinforcement ought to be strong enough to secure the wall. 2 strengthening, buttressing, bolstering, shoring (up), augmentation, bracing: This shelf is wobbly and in need of reinforcement. 3 reinforcements. reserves, auxiliaries, men, soldiers, forces, personnel: We cannot hold out till reinforcements arrive.
rejoice v. delight, exult, glory, celebrate, revel, be happy or delighted or pleased or overjoyed or elated or glad, Colloq be tickled (pink): We all rejoiced to be home once again after the ordeal.
related adj. 1 associate(d), affiliate(d), connected, coupled, linked, tied up, allied, correlated, coordinate(d), interconnected, interrelated, interdependent, mutual, reciprocal, common, joint, cognate: She and her husband work for related companies. 2 kin, kindred, consanguineous, cognate, agnate; akin: Just how are you two related? Are you cousins?
relatively adv. more or less, somewhat, comparatively, rather, to some degree or extent: Business has been relatively quiet lately.
release v. 1 let go, (set) free, liberate, (set or let or turn) loose, unloose, untie, unchain, unfetter, unshackle, deliver, let out, disenthral, discharge, let off, emancipate, manumit, rescue, save: They kept up a strenuous campaign until all the political prisoners were released. 2 issue, publish, make available, put out, pass out, hand out, come out with, circulate, distribute, disseminate; launch, unveil, present: The government refuses to release information that is considered harmful to its interests. The band's new album will be released tomorrow. --n. 3 freeing, releasing, liberating, loosing, unloosing, delivering, emancipating, manumitting, rescuing, saving, freedom, liberation, deliverance, discharge, emancipation, manumission, rescue, remission, salvation: The release of the prisoner is scheduled for noon. It would be a great release to be rid of housework. 4 press or publicity release, announcement, publicity, notice, story, report: The press office sent out a release to the media about Randolph's appointment.
relevance n. relevancy, appropriateness, aptness, pertinence, bearing, connection, affinity, tie-in, relation, significance, suitability, suitableness, applicability, application, applicableness: What you just said has no relevance whatsoever to the issue under discussion.
relic n. 1 memento, keepsake, memorial, remembrance, souvenir, heirloom, token, artefact or artifact: It has been argued again and again that the Turin shroud, though old, is not a genuine relic of Christ. 2 remains; fragment, trace, scrap, shard or sherd, remnant: Deep in the jungle, archaeologists unearthed relics of a previously unknown civilization.
religious adj. 1 devout, churchgoing, pious, God-fearing, holy, spiritual-minded: You never struck me as a particularly religious person. 2 scrupulous, exact, precise, conscientious, rigorous, strict, fastidious, meticulous, faithful, punctilious, unerring, unswerving, undeviating: Edmund's work is characterized by religious devotion to detail.
reluctant adj. unwilling, disinclined, averse, hesitant, loath, unenthusiastic, indisposed, opposed, antagonistic; cautious, chary, wary, leery, circumspect, careful: I remember how reluctant you were to try raw oysters, and then you couldn't get enough of them.
remaining adj. 1 left (over), extant, outstanding: I did as much as I could in the time remaining. 2 leftover, surviving, residual; unused, uneaten, unconsumed: The remaining books will be sold at auction.
remember v. 1 call to mind, bear in mind; recall, recollect: Can you remember her funny little laugh? Yes, I remember. 2 muse (on or about), reminisce over or about, think back on or about, memorialize, commemorate, recognize: He will be remembered for his many achievements. 3 retain, keep in mind, recall: He was unable to remember his own name or where he lived. 4 tip, reward: The Elliotts always remembered the servants at Christmas.
reminisce v. Sometimes, reminisce about. remember, recollect, think back, look back, turn one's mind or thoughts back; call to mind, hark back, return: Most of the time we just sit about and reminisce. The other day we were reminiscing about the time Alex was arrested for shoplifting.
remission n. 1 forgiveness, pardon, deliverance, amnesty, reprieve, exoneration, release, absolution, exculpation, indulgence, excuse, exemption, acquittal: As we were granted remission of our crimes, we were freed. 2 diminution, abatement, decrease, lessening, subsidence, alleviation, mitigation, assuagement, ebbing, relaxation, easing: Remission of the disease may occur, but most sufferers deteriorate rapidly.
remorse n. regret, repentance, ruefulness, sorrow, woe, anxiety, guilty or bad conscience, pangs of conscience, humiliation, embarrassment, guilt, self-reproach, mortification, shame, contrition, contriteness, penitence, compunction, bitterness: It is impossible to describe the remorse he felt at having run over the little girl's puppy.
removal n. 1 elimination, removing, eradication, taking away: The removal of the wallpaper revealed that the plaster underneath was in very poor condition. 2 extermination, murder, elimination, killing, slaying, assassination, execution, liquidation, eradication, massacre, slaughter, purge, doing away with, Slang bumping off, rubbing out, doing in, US rub-out, wasting: The removal of the finance minister was accomplished by the secret police. 3 dismissal, transfer, transference, transferral, shifting, discharge, throwing over, throwing out, deposition, unseating, dethroning, dethronement, displacement, expulsion, ouster, ousting, riddance, purge, Colloq firing, sacking: The company functions better since the removal of the former chairman. 4 move, transfer, departure, moving: Her removal to a branch office was requested by top management. 5 moving, house-moving: We hired a removal van when we moved to Shropshire.
rend v. 1 rip or tear or pull (to pieces or apart or asunder), wrench, mangle, shred: The bully threatened to rend me limb from limb. 2 split, tear, rip, rupture, cleave, split, rive, separate, slice, lacerate: When the balloon was rent from top to bottom, the basket fell to the ground. 3 pain, distress, pierce, stab, smite, wound, afflict, torment, wring, hurt: My heart was rent by conflicting emotions.
renegade n. 1 deserter, turncoat, heretic, defector, traitor, apostate, Archaic renegado: The renegade has organized a conspiracy against us. --adj. 2 traitorous, treacherous, perfidious, treasonous, apostate, heretical, disloyal: A renegade band of deserters has turned against the army leaders.
renovate v. redecorate, modernize, do over, refurbish, refurnish, refit, remodel; recondition, rehabilitate, restore, repair, revamp, overhaul, patch up, Colloq do up, US fix up: We are having the entire house renovated by an interior decorator. It was quite costly to have those paintings renovated.
rent n. tear, rip, split, gash, slash, hole, slit: The skirt has a six-inch rent in it.
repeal v. 1 revoke, recall, rescind, reverse, cancel, annul, nullify, invalidate, void, set aside, abolish, abrogate, Law vacate: They have repealed the rule forbidding guests to wear shorts in the restaurant. --n. 2 revocation, recall, rescission, rescindment, reversal, cancellation, annulment, nullification, invalidation, voiding, abolition, abrogation: Alcoholic beverages were forbidden in the US until the repeal of Prohibition.
repellent adj. repulsive, repelling, revolting, disgusting, nauseating, nauseous, stomach-turning, sickening, offensive, loathsome, repugnant, distasteful, vomit-provoking, sick-making, disagreeable, obnoxious, off-putting: He described some of the more repellent examples of vivisection he had encountered.
repertory n. repertoire, store, reservoir, collection, hoard, cache, repository, stock, supply, inventory, stockpile: Cosgrove felt compelled to run through his entire repertory of jokes at dinner.
replace v. 1 change, put in place of, substitute, supplant, renew: If the toy won't work, try replacing the batteries. 2 succeed, supersede, substitute for, take over from, supplant: Tim will be replacing David as department head. 3 restore, return, put back, make good (on), repay, refund, make restitution for: Are you going to replace the money you took?
reply v. 1 answer, respond, rejoin, retort, return, come back, acknowledge: When I asked where he had been, he refused to reply and walked out of the room. --n. 2 answer, response, rejoinder, retort, comeback, riposte, reaction, US rise: I have written to the prime minister but as yet have had no reply.
represent v. 1 substitute for, stand (in) for, replace, act for: I have appointed her to represent me in all legal matters. 2 Often, represent oneself as. present (oneself), depict (oneself), put or set (oneself) forth, masquerade as, take (on) or assume the guise or role or part of, characterize as, impersonate, pretend to be, pose as, imitate, mimic: He represents himself as a plumber in order to get into houses to rob them. His wife was represented to me as a social worker. 3 describe, delineate, reproduce, report, assert, state, put or set forth, show, reflect, mirror, characterize, define, note, outline, sketch, depict, picture, portray, draw, paint; pretend: What took place that fateful day is not as represented in Inspector Taylor's testimony. 4 symbolize, stand for, typify, exemplify, embody, epitomize; illustrate: He represents all that is good in the world today.
repression n. 1 restraint, suppression, subjugation: Increasing repression of their liberties finally led the people to revolt. 2 check, squelching, control, inhibition, hampering, hindering, hindrance, stifling, deterring, frustration, frustrating: The repression of the revolt was unsuccessful.
reprisal n. retaliation, revenge, retribution, redress, requital, vengeance, repayment, recompense, vindication, getting even, indemnity: She refused to be named because she feared reprisals. How many hostages did they shoot in reprisal?
reproduction n. 1 duplication, copying, printing: Unlicensed reproduction of this film is against the law. 2 duplicate, copy, print, clone, carbon (copy), facsimile, replica, look-alike, double, twin, imitation: The reproductions look better than the original. 3 propagation, breeding, spawning, proliferation, production: Today's lecture concerns reproduction and breeding habits of large sea-mammals. reproof n. See reprimand, 1, above. reprove v. See reprimand, 2, above.
repulsive adj. disgusting, revolting, abhorrent, loathsome, repugnant, repellent, offensive, obnoxious, objectionable, gross, unsavoury, distasteful, nasty, unpleasant, displeasing, disagreeable, ugly, off-putting, sickening, nauseating, nauseous, beastly, vile, dreadful, awful, rotten, feculent, foul, odious, horrible, horrid, abominable, execrable, fulsome: I have seldom had so repulsive an experience as the tour of that abattoir. The repulsive sights and smells were more than I could bear.
request v. 1 ask for, seek, plead for, apply for, put in for, requisition, call for, demand, insist on, solicit, beg, entreat, beseech, importune: They request my cooperation. I requested to be excused. He requested her to open the door for him. --n. 2 plea, petition, application, requisition, call, demand, solicitation, entreaty: We receive many requests for information.
requital n. 1 repayment, return, recompense, redress, restitution, reparation, remuneration, quittance, amends, satisfaction, compensation, payment: I look forward to an opportunity to make requital for all the favours you have done for me. 2 revenge, retaliation, retribution, reprisal, vengeance; quid pro quo, Roland for an Oliver: In requital for his shameful treachery, MacFallon was sent into exile.
resemblance n. likeness, similarity; correspondence, congruity, coincidence, conformity, accord, agreement, equivalence, comparableness, comparability, comparison: There is a striking resemblance between your wife and mine. Any resemblance is purely a matter of chance.
resentment n. bitterness, acrimony, rancour, envy, jealousy, grudge, indignation, displeasure, dissatisfaction, unhappiness, irritation, annoyance, provocation, pique, anger, ire, fury, agitation, upset, anxiety, ill will, malice, antagonism, hostility, animosity, enmity, antipathy, hate: Some believe that inequality among people provokes resentment.
residence n. 1 abode, home, domicile, dwelling, dwelling-place, place, house, habitation, (living) quarters: A crowd was waiting to greet them outside their residence. 2 residency, stay, sojourn, visit, tenancy: During his residence in Cape Province, he became bilingual in Xhosa. 3 mansion, villa, manor (house), stately home, estate, chteau, castle, palace, Brit hall: The ambassadorial residence was a very imposing structure.
resign v. 1 quit, leave, go, abdicate, give notice; retire (from), abandon, give up, forsake, hand over, yield up, renounce, relinquish, let go, release, vacate, surrender, deliver up, turn over: Amanda resigned because she was offered a better job elsewhere. Anthony refused to resign the last of his responsibilities till he was ninety. 2 resign (oneself) (to). reconcile (oneself) (to), be or become resigned or reconciled (to), accommodate (oneself) (to), adjust (oneself) (to), adapt (oneself) (to), acclimatize or acclimate (oneself) (to), submit (oneself) (to): Knowing that no one had ever escaped from the prison, he resigned himself to his fate.
resistance n. 1 opposition, defiance, refusal, denial, obstruction, intransigence, rebelliousness, recalcitrance, stubbornness: The child puts up considerable resistance to any form of discipline. 2 defences: My resistance is low, I can deny you nothing. 3 Resistance. underground, partisans, freedom fighters, guerrilla or guerilla movement, guerrillas or guerillas, irregulars, Maquis, US resisters: During the war, he was a member of the Resistance and engaged in sabotage against the invaders.
resolve v. 1 determine, decide, make up one's mind, agree, undertake, settle, fix, conclude: When did you resolve to move to Australia? Let us resolve never to let this happen again. 2 work out, figure out, solve, clear up, answer: How have you resolved the problem of looking after the cats while you are away? 3 adopt, pass, approve, decide: It was resolved that membership fees should be raised. 4 resolve into. change into, convert into, alter into, transform into, transmute into, metamorphose into, be convert(ed) into, become, dissolve into, break down into, liquefy into, disintegrate into, reduce to or into: O, that this too too solid flesh would melt, Thaw, and resolve itself into a dew! --n. 5 See resolution, 1, above. 6 See resolution, 2, above: She kept her resolve never to marry again.
resource n. 1 Often, resources. initiative, ingenuity, talent, inventiveness, imagination, imaginativeness, cleverness, quick-wittedness, capability, resourcefulness, aptitude, qualifications, strength, quality, forte, Colloq Brit gumption, Slang guts: Has he the inner resources for the job that lies ahead? 2 Often, resources. capital, assets, money, possessions, wealth, property, cash, funds: She has sufficient resources to retire at fifty if she wants to.
respectful adj. courteous, polite, well-mannered, well-behaved, mannerly, civil, cordial, gentlemanly, ladylike, gracious, obliging, accommodating, considerate, thoughtful: On entering, Captain Gregory made a respectful bow to the ladies.
respond v. 1 answer, reply, come back, return, react, reciprocate, counter; rejoin, retort: When Sean insulted her, Una responded with a slap to his face. I said, 'Good morning!' and Adrian responded, 'What's good about it?' 2 Often, respond to. be responsive (to), react (to), empathize (with), sympathize (with), commiserate (with), feel for, pity, be affected or moved or touched (by): Many respond to those charity appeals for the crippled and disabled.
responsive adj. alert, alive, (wide-)awake, reactive, communicative, sharp, keen, receptive, sensitive, open, sympathetic: I was delighted to find students who were so responsive to the ideas put forth in my lectures.
restitution n. 1 amends, compensation, redress, recompense, remuneration, reparation, requital, indemnification, indemnity: It was agreed that victims of the raids were entitled to restitution for what had been taken from them. 2 restoration, return, re-establishment, reinstatement, recovery: A commission is to investigate the restitution of plundered property.
restore v. 1 give or hand back, return, make restitution, bring back: We must restore to the people the land that is rightfully theirs. 2 revive, rejuvenate, re-establish, renew, bring back, give (someone) back, resuscitate, resurrect, rekindle, reinvigorate, refresh, stimulate, revitalize, strengthen: Your kindness has restored my faith in mankind. 3 renovate, refurbish, renew, repair, rejuvenate, resurrect, revive, reconstruct, rehabilitate, rebuild; mend, fix, retouch, touch up; Colloq US fix up: They live in a 17th-century cottage that has been lovingly restored. Antiques often lose their value entirely if they are restored. 4 replace, reinstate, put back; return, bring back: They said that they would not rest until they had restored the rightful king on the throne. The doctor said she would soon be restored to good health. 5 replace, reimburse, repay, return, pay or put or give back: Even though he has restored all the money he took, she refuses to forgive him.
restriction n. 1 condition, provision, proviso, qualification, stipulation: One restriction is that purchasers of shares in the utility must be resident in the UK. 2 See restraint, 1, above.
resurgence n. renaissance, renascence, rebirth, revival, reawakening, restoration, renewal, resumption, return, resurrection, regeneration, rejuvenation, new dawn, new birth: Simone is banking her entire future on a resurgence of interest in seventies' fashion.
retard v. 1 slow (down or up), hold up or back, set back, hinder, impede, delay, keep back, stall, thwart, balk, block, restrict, hold in check, frustrate, interfere with: Growth of the economy was severely retarded by the war. --n. 2 Offensive and derogatory idiot, moron, fool, imbecile, dunce, Slang chiefly US and Canadian jerk: Why she invites that retard to her parties I can't imagine.
retiring adj. shy, bashful, coy, demure, modest, diffident, timid, unpretentious, unassuming, humble, self-effacing, timorous, meek, reticent, reserved, unsocial, unsociable, aloof, removed, standoffish, distant, reclusive, eremitic(al): Howard is of a retiring disposition, preferring to keep to himself.
retreat n. 1 retirement, withdrawal, pulling or falling or drawing back, giving ground, evacuation, flight: The regiment's retreat in the face of overwhelming odds is complete. 2 retirement, seclusion, withdrawal, isolation, solitude, rustication: Since her retreat from public life, she has devoted herself to painting. 3 sanctuary, sanctum (sanctorum), refuge, shelter, den, haven, asylum, resort, hideaway, hide-out: Antonia insisted on having her own retreat where she could occasionally escape from the children. --v. 4 withdraw, decamp, run (away), turn tail, depart, give or lose ground, pull or fall or draw back, retire, evacuate, flee, take flight: We must retreat to the shelter of the hills, where we can regroup. 5 ebb, draw or move back, recede: The waves, constantly advancing and retreating across the pebbly strand, lulled me to sleep.
return v. 1 come or go back, revert, turn back: She is returning to her old habits. I shall return to this subject later if I have time. 2 come back, reappear, resurface, crop up again, turn or show up again, put in an appearance again; recur, reoccur, Colloq pop up again: Will he return before March? The symptoms returned. 3 replace, put back, restore, give back, bring or carry back: The missing books have mysteriously been returned. 4 exchange, bring back or carry back: You may return any merchandise, for any reason, for refund or exchange, within ten days of its purchase. 5 yield, earn, gain, profit, benefit: Where else can you find a secure investment that returns more than 15 per cent? 6 deliver, render, give, offer, turn in, proffer, report: The jury returned a verdict of Not Guilty. --n. 7 recurrence, reappearance, repetition, renewal, recrudescence, resurfacing, re-emergence: There was a return of the symptoms when I stopped taking the medicine. 8 replacement, replacing, restoration, restoring, restitution: We shall see to the return of the stolen items to their rightful places. 9 Sometimes, returns. yield, earnings, profit, gain, benefit, income, revenue, proceeds, interest, takings, results: The return on my investment was almost 100 per cent! 10 arrival, advent, coming, home-coming: A small crowd had gathered to await his return. 11 reciprocity, reciprocation, repayment, recompense, reimbursement, compensation, payment, reparation, indemnity, indemnification, consideration, amends, redress, requital: If I give you my bike, what will I get in return?
revelation n. news, information, proclamation, publication, bulletin, communiqu, announcement, pronouncement, declaration, statement, leak; admission, confession; discovery, unveiling, uncovering, exposure, disclosure, expos: We were shocked at the revelation that they had been married all these years. Scientists' revelations about the depletion of the ozone layer are causing widespread concern.
revere v. adore, adulate, reverence, venerate, worship, idolize, enshrine, sanctify, beatify, glorify, esteem, admire, respect, honour: He was revered as the founding father of British psychology.
reverse adj. 1 opposite, contrary, inverse, converse; inverted, upside down, mirror, reversed, backward: Now try turning the wheel in the reverse direction. What appears on the retina is a reverse image, which the brain inverts. --v. 2 invert, overturn, turn upside down, turn topsy-turvy, turn over, up-end; exchange, change, interchange, transpose: Using your finger to keep the mercury from running out, reverse the tube in the dish of mercury. Perhaps the car will start if you reverse the leads to the battery. 3 overturn, overthrow, upset, set aside, quash, override, annul, nullify, vacate, abandon, revoke, negate, veto, declare null and void, disaffirm, invalidate, cancel, repeal, rescind, overrule, countermand, undo: The superior tribunal reversed the decision of the lower-court judge. 4 alter, change, modify; renounce, recant, take back: Reverse the polarity of the wiring. I reversed my opinion after hearing her sing. 5 back up, move or go backwards or US also backward, backtrack, Nautical make sternway: You will be in the right spot if you reverse a yard or two. --n. 6 opposite, contrary, converse, antithesis: Whatever she tells you, I suggest you do the reverse. 7 back, rear, wrong side, verso, underside; flip side, B-side; tail side: Read what it says on the reverse. 8 set-back, disappointment, misfortune, reversal, mishap, misadventure, trouble, problem, difficulty, vicissitude, adversity, defeat; disaster, catastrophe, dbacle, rout, Colloq washout: We suffered a temporary reverse or two in business, but we're all right now. United suffered a humiliating reverse against Wanderers in the cup last week.
revision n. editing, revising, emendation, improvement, correction, rectification, modification, revamping, reappraisal, re-examination, reinterpretation, reassessment, redaction, reworking, overhaul, overhauling, updating, update; rewrite, edition, version, rendition: Her revision of the text is based on a newly discovered manuscript. The fourth revision will be available next April.
revolt n. 1 rebellion, revolution, uprising, mutiny, insurrection, coup d'tat, putsch, take-over: The council ordered the secret police to suppress the revolt. --v. 2 rebel, rise up, mutiny; protest, dissent: After years of oppression, the people revolted and deposed their leaders. 3 repel, offend, disgust, shock, horrify, repulse, nauseate, sicken: I was revolted by the poverty and sickness I saw in that country.
revolve v. 1 spin, turn, pivot, rotate, gyrate, whirl, twirl, reel, wheel, go (a)round, circle, cycle, orbit; swivel: As the earth revolves on its axis, the moon revolves round the earth. 2 turn, depend, pivot, rely: His decision to buy a new car revolves on his finances. 3 turn over (in one's mind), ponder, weigh, consider, meditate upon or on, think about, reflect upon or on, ruminate over or on, chew over, contemplate: I have been revolving in my mind your most attractive proposal, but I regret I must turn it down.
rewarding adj. satisfying, gratifying, worthwhile, enriching, enriched, fruitful, worthwhile; profitable, advantageous, productive, gainful: Laurence says that his most rewarding experience has been seeing his children again.
rhyme n. 1 rime, poem, poetry, verse, versification, metrical composition, song: The art of rhyme may well be coincident with the earliest stages of language. 2 rhyme or reason. (common) sense, logic, intelligence, meaning, wisdom, rationality, rationale, soundness, organization, structure: There appears to be no rhyme or reason behind the bombing of the library.
rich adj. 1 wealthy, affluent, prosperous, well-to-do, well off, well provided for, opulent, moneyed, in clover, on velvet, Colloq flush, loaded, on Easy Street, rolling in it or money or wealth, in the chips or the dough or the money, well-heeled, US well-fixed: A year ago Montmorency was a rich man, but that was before Blue Thursday on the Stock Exchange. 2 Sometimes, rich in. abundant (in), overflowing (with), fertile (in), fecund (in), productive (of), copious (in), abounding in, well supplied (with), well stocked (with), rife (with), replete (with), profuse (in or with): The rich prairie land was soon yielding abundant harvests. The surrounding mountains were rich in minerals of all kinds. 3 valuable, precious, invaluable, priceless: For centuries the islanders have enjoyed the rich bounty of the seas. The thieves who broke into the vaults got a rich haul. 4 costly, expensive, dear, valuable, invaluable, precious, priceless, lavish, sumptuous, lush, luxurious, palatial, elaborate, splendid, exquisite, superb, elegant: The caravans returned laden with rich treasures of the Orient silks, jewels, spices, rare woods, and other luxuries. 5 intense, dark, deep, warm, vibrant, strong, lustrous: At the rajah's court the rich colours of the carpets and hangings dazzle the eye. 6 fat, fattening, heavy, creamy, succulent, savoury, mouth-watering, luscious, sapid, delicious: When Vicky complained that her sweet was too rich, Arthur ate hers, too. 7 mellow, mellifluous, resonant, sonorous, full: Edgar's rich basso filled the cavernous amphitheatre. 8 aromatic, ambrosial, savoury, fragrant, redolent, pungent, strong: The house was filled with the rich odour of freshly made coffee. 9 productive, plentiful, abundant, ample, bountiful, prolific, fruitful, fertile, fecund, copious, profitable, potent: The letters proved a rich source of intimate details about their private life. 10 laughable, funny, hilarious, comic(al), humorous, amusing, Colloq side-splitting: He had many rich anecdotes to relate about the practical jokes they used to play on one another. 11 ridiculous, preposterous, outlandish, ludicrous, absurd, nonsensical: One particularly rich episode involved a chimpanzee.
rid v. 1 rid of. deliver from, relieve of, free from or of, rescue, save: What can we do to rid ourselves of that appalling smell? --adj. 2 be or get rid of. banish, exile, eject, expel, dispose of, throw out or away, eliminate, dispense with; refuse, reject, dismiss, shrug off: If she had wanted to be rid of him, she would have divorced him long ago. I am having a spot of bother trying to get rid of my old car: nobody wants to buy it.
ride v. 1 sit on or in, travel or journey or go or proceed on or in, be borne or carried or conveyed (on or in), take; propel or control or drive (a horse or a bicycle or a motor cycle): They ride the bus to work each day. The film began with a witch riding a broomstick. Do you know how to ride a motor bike? 2 float, lie: The yacht is riding at anchor off Portsmouth. 3 tyrannize, terrorize, intimidate, dominate, oppress; bully, rag, harry, harass, hector, nag, provoke, heckle, badger, plague, pester, annoy, irritate, Colloq hassle: He has been ridden by obsessive ambition all his life. --n. 4 drive, journey, trip, excursion, tour, jaunt, outing, expedition, Colloq spin: Let's go for a ride in the country! 5 take for a ride. a delude, swindle, trick, deceive, defraud, humbug, defraud, gull, take in, cheat, bamboozle: Those tricksters with the loaded dice certainly took Charlie for a ride last night! b (kidnap and) murder or kill or execute or do in, Slang bump off, US (snatch and) rub out or waste: They said that if he identified them, they would take him for a ride.
riff-raff n. rabble, hoi polloi, ragtag and bobtail, scum, canaille, masses, dregs (of society), Colloq great unwashed: I am shocked that you continue your membership in a club to which riff-raff like Trevor Barnes belong.
right adj. 1 just, moral, good, proper, correct, legal, lawful, licit, honest, upright, righteous, virtuous, ethical, fair, true, honourable, right-minded, principled, open, above-board: There is no doubt in my mind that Simon can be relied on to do the right thing. 2 correct, fitting, suitable, proper, accurate, exact, precise, perfect; factual, truthful, veracious, valid, sound, Colloq Brit bang on, spot on: Have you bought the right kind of nail to go into plaster? Jennie had nine right answers out of ten. How many of yours are right? 3 propitious, convenient, strategic, advantageous, beneficial, favourable, auspicious, preferred, preferable, promising: It is critical for the mixture to reach the boiling point at exactly the right time. 4 sound, sane, normal, rational, lucid, healthy: Is she right in the head, letting him drive in his condition? 5 right-hand, dextral, dexter, Nautical starboard: In the United Kingdom, drivers sit on the right side. 6 rightist, right-wing, conservative, reactionary, Tory: The right wing of the liberal party is not so very different from the left wing of the conservatives. 7 face, upper, principal, front: Have you laid the tablecloth right side up? 8 utter, complete, perfect, unmitigated, unalloyed, out-and-out, thorough, thoroughgoing, 24-carat or esp. US 24-karat, dyed in the wool, pure, absolute, real, Brit proper: I've been a right idiot not to realize that he loved only her. --n. 9 privilege, prerogative, licence, power, claim, title, freedom, liberty: We must allow nothing to interfere with our democratic rights, such as our right to vote. 10 justice, reason, fact, truth, fairness, equity, good, goodness, integrity, virtue, virtuousness, honesty, honourableness, morality, propriety, rectitude, right-mindedness, high-mindedness, nobility, uprightness: He believes that he has right on his side. 11 right side or hand or fist, Nautical starboard: She stood on his right. She gave him a quick right to the jaw. 12 by rights. properly, fairly, justly, to be just, to be fair, in fairness, honestly, in all honesty, to be honest: By rights, because I paid for it, the house is mine. --adv. 13 directly, straight, straightaway, right away or off, in a beeline, as the crow flies, forthwith; unhesitatingly, immediately, promptly, at once, instantly, without hesitating or hesitation, without delay, quickly, swiftly, speedily, Colloq pronto, straight off: The minute he walked into the room, he went right to the wall-safe. Please come over right now. 14 exactly, precisely, unerringly, accurately; just: She hung the paintings right where they belonged. 15 just, only: I stopped right now - when you walked in. 16 well, satisfactorily, advantageously, profitably, favourably, opportunely: I hope that everything turns out right for you. 17 correctly, accurately, properly, precisely, well, sensibly, fittingly, suitably, aptly: If you can't do it right, why bother doing it at all! --v. 18 straighten (up or out), set upright or aright: I righted all the chairs the children had knocked over. 19 put or set or make right, put or set to rights, correct, straighten out, redress, amend, make up for, rectify, sort out, repair, fix: She has always felt that her mission in life was to right wrongs. 20 avenge, retaliate for, vindicate, repay, revenge, settle, Colloq get even for: Langdon swore that he would right the injury done to his father's name.
rigmarole n. rigamarole, motions, complication(s), formalities, red tape, bureaucracy, punctilio, ceremoniousness, ceremony, ritual, procedure, mess, mumbo-jumbo, gobbledegook or gobbledygook, bunkum or buncombe, bother, balderdash, rubbish, nonsense, foolishness, Colloq hassle, bunk, Slang crap, US meshugaas or mishegaas: Why must one go through such a rigmarole just to get a driving licence?
ring n. 1 loop, hoop, band, circle, ringlet, circlet, annulus, grommet, eyelet, quoit, noose, cincture, belt, girdle, cestus or cestos, border, halo, aureole, nimbus, corona, cuff, collar, necklace, neckband, bandeau, fillet, bracelet, armlet, torque or torc, crown, coronet, tiara, diadem, (laurel-)wreath, garland, Mechanics gland, bearing, US and Canadian bushing or Brit also bush, washer, O-ring, Nautical thimble, Architecture and heraldry annulet, Literary roundlet, Anatomy cingulum: The rings brought up from the wreck of the ancient Greek trading vessel are worth a great deal. 2 rink, enclosure, arena, circus, bullring, Spanish plaza de toros, boxing ring: I would no sooner get into the ring with him than with a bull! 3 circle, organization, gang, band, pack, cell, team, crew, confederacy, confederation, combination, cartel, mob, bloc, coterie, set, clan, clique, fraternity, brotherhood, sorority, sisterhood, guild, (secret) society, junta or junto, cabal, faction, group, league, alliance, federation, coalition, union, affiliation, camorra, camarilla, Bund: She was running an international ring of jewel thieves who worked only in the most exclusive resorts. --v. 4 encircle, surround, bind, gird, girt, circle; loop, compass, envelop, encompass, embrace: The swimming-pool is ringed with dense shrubbery. After the vase is fired, I intend to ring the base with a gold band.
riotous adj. 1 tumultuous, unrestrained, wild, noisy, uncontrolled, uncontrollable, unmanageable, chaotic, disorderly, disordered, lawless, turbulent, violent, brawling, obstreperous: The headmaster warned that he would not tolerate such riotous behaviour. 2 rowdy, boisterous, unruly, uproarious, rollicking, roisterous, wild, rumbustious, unrestrained, uninhibited, Archaic robustious, Colloq rambunctious, no-holds-barred: Bernard's retirement party was certainly a riotous affair.
rip-off n. 1 stealing, purloining, robbing, pilfering, taking, filching, pilferage, theft, robbery, larceny; shoplifting, Colloq pinching, Brit nicking, Slang lifting, swiping, US boosting: The rip-off of books from the library is a disgrace. 2 swindle, confidence trick, swindling, cheating, cheat, fraud, deception, defrauding, defalcation; embezzlement, Colloq con (job or trick): A husband-and-wife team are being sought for executing a rip-off of thousands from the Outland Bank using a forged letter of credit. 3 overcharging, exploitation, Colloq highway or chiefly Brit daylight robbery: It's a rip-off to charge two pounds for something that costs only three pence to make.
risk n. 1 danger, peril, jeopardy, hazard, chance, gamble: I would take up skydiving, but my mother won't let me because of the risk. --v. 2 endanger, imperil, jeopardize, hazard, chance, gamble: Would you really risk all your money on one roll of the dice?
ritual adj. 1 ceremonial, ceremonious, sacramental: The celebrants undergo ritual washing before preparing the sacrifice. 2 procedural, formal, conventional, customary, habitual, routine, prescribed, usual, automatic, perfunctory: Each time they meet, Harold and Bill have to go through a ritual handshaking routine - a hangover from their school-days, I think. --n. 3 formality, routine, custom, practice, convention, protocol: If everyone goes through this tea-drinking ritual twice a day, how do you get any work done? 4 See rite, above.
riveting adj. spellbinding, engrossing, hypnotic, hypnotizing, transfixing, fascinating, enthralling, gripping, captivating, absorbing: The programme was absolutely riveting - one of the best I have ever seen.
robber n. thief, pickpocket, shoplifter, burglar, bandit, housebreaker, sneak-thief, cat burglar, safe-breaker, highwayman, gentleman of the road, brigand, pirate, freebooter, buccaneer, privateer, corsair, Colloq mugger, hold-up man, Slang cracksman, rip-off artist, safe-cracker, safe-blower, Chiefly US stick-up man, US second-story or second-storey man: The police were making every effort to catch the robbers.
rock n. 1 stone; boulder: In the avalanche, the rocks thoroughly destroyed the ski lodge. 2 crag, tor, escarpment, scarp, Brit outcrop, US outcropping: We used to go rock climbing when I had the strength. 3 on the rocks. a on ice: I'd like a whisky on the rocks, thanks. b in (a) shambles, destroyed, in ruins, ruined, finished, broken-down, beyond repair: He lost his job and his marriage went on the rocks. c destitute, poverty-stricken, indigent, penniless, bankrupt: Unable to find another job, he's been on the rocks for a year, now.
rocky adj. unstable, tottering, teetering, unsteady, shaky, rickety, unsure, uncertain, unreliable, weak, flimsy, wobbly, wobbling, vacillating, dubious, doubtful, questionable, Colloq iffy: The project will be very rocky till we are assured proper funding.
roll v. 1 rotate, cycle, turn (over (and over)), wheel, trundle; revolve, go (a)round, orbit, tumble, somersault or somerset or summersault or summerset: Th landlord rolled another barrel beer into the pub. The children loved rolling about in the ride at the fun fair. 2 pass, go, flow, slip, flit, glide, slide, move (on); expire, elapse, disappear, vanish, evaporate: The time certainly rolls by quickly when you're having fun. 3 move, drive, bowl, be carried or conveyed, cruise, sail, coast, ride, float, fly: We rolled down the road, singing and laughing. 4 undulate, billow, rise and fall: The countryside rolled away before us as far as the eye could see. 5 roar, echo, re-echo, rumble, reverberate, resound, sound, boom, peal, resonate, thunder: The roar of the explosion rolled over us as we ran for cover. 6 rob, steal from: They got their money by rolling drunks. 7 Often, roll out. flatten, level (off or out), smooth (out), even (out), grade: After cutting, the lawn ought to be rolled. 8 Usually, roll over. turn (over), rotate, spin: Roll onto your stomach so I can examine your back. 9 Usually, roll up. furl, coil, curl, wind (up), wrap (up); enwrap, swathe, enfold, envelop, shroud, enshroud: Every night he takes down the banner and carefully rolls it. Cleopatra was rolled up in a rug to be smuggled past the guards. 10 roll in. a arrive, come in, pour in, flow in, turn up, show up: The contributions really started to roll in after the appeal. b luxuriate in, revel in, wallow in, savour, bask in, delight in, take pleasure in, indulge in, rejoice in, relish: Basil has been rolling in unaccustomed wealth since his aunt died. 11 roll out. unroll, unfurl, spread (out), unfold, uncoil, uncurl, unwind, open (out): Roll out the bolt of cloth so that we can measure it. --n. 12 reel, spool, cylinder, scroll; tube: The message was written on a long roll of paper. 13 list, rota, register, record, directory, listing, roster, slate, docket, catalogue, inventory, muster, index, census, annal(s), schedule, chronicle(s), Sports line-up: With great ceremony, the clerk read the roll. 14 rolling, billowing, waving, wave action, wave, billow, swell, undulation, pitching, rocking, tossing: With each roll of the boat, I felt more seasick. 15 peal, rumble, reverberation, boom, echo, thunder, roar: A roll of thunder drowned out her shouts. 16 rotation, spin, toss, whirl, twirl: I decided to bet everything on one last roll of the dice. 17 bun; scone, croissant; Brit bread-roll, bap, split: Waiter, would you please bring some more rolls? 18 bankroll, money, wad, bundle: He took out a roll of notes and peeled off five twenties.
room n. 1 space, area, scope, extent, allowance, latitude, elbow-room, range, leeway, margin: There is room for one more inside. 2 chamber, apartment, compartment, office, cell, cubicle: For years Pablo occupied a small room on the top floor. 3 rooms. quarters, lodgings, accommodation, flat, dwelling: We had rooms in an old house downtown. --v. 4 live, lodge, dwell, abide, reside, stay: Did you really room with the daughter of a prime minister?
root v. Usually, root for. cheer (for), applaud (for); boost, support, encourage, urge on: I'm rooting for our side to win.
rostrum n. platform, stage, dais, podium, stand; pulpit; lectern, reading-stand: As the crowd hooted and booed, the speaker descended from the rostrum.
rote n. 1 routine, ritual: He acquired a rote knowledge of the words, without knowing what they mean. 2 by rote. a by heart, from memory: He can recite the entire Prologue of Canterbury Tales by rote. b unthinkingly, automatically, mechanically: She learned the French dialogue by rote but doesn't understand a word of it.
rough adj. 1 uneven, irregular, coarse, jagged, rugged, bumpy, lumpy, broken: The next mile or so we slogged over some very rough terrain. 2 agitated, turbulent, choppy, stormy, storm-tossed, tempestuous, roiled: We negotiated a very rough patch of water before sailing into the calm, sheltered bay. 3 brusque, bluff, curt, short, abrupt, unpleasant, churlish, discourteous, impolite, rough-spoken, ungracious, surly, disrespectful, rude, uncouth, loutish, unrefined, uncivil, uncivilized, uncultured, vulgar, unladylike, ungentlemanly, coarse, ill-mannered, ill-bred, inconsiderate: Ian can be a bit rough, I know, but underneath he is a true and loyal friend. 4 tough, rough-and-tumble, roughneck, rowdy: There are some very rough characters frequenting that pub. 5 harsh, violent, unfeeling, unjust, severe, cruel, tough, hard, brutal, extreme; ungentle: They were subjected to very rough treatment when being questioned by the police. 6 dirty, obscene, smutty, pornographic, vulgar, crude, raw, rude: After midnight they watch the rough shows beamed by satellite from Italy. 7 hard, tough, Spartan, difficult, arduous, laborious, rugged, unpleasant: It was pretty rough going with almost no money and all those expenses. 8 harsh, grating, cacophonous, discordant, jarring, strident, raucous, rasping, unmusical, inharmonious, gruff, husky: In acknowledgement he made a rough, growling noise. 9 unfinished, incomplete, uncompleted, imperfect, rudimentary, crude, rude, formless, unformed, raw, rough-and-ready, rough-hewn, roughcast, undeveloped, unshaped, unworked, unwrought, unprocessed, unrefined; uncut, unpolished; shapeless, unshaped, undressed: I only saw the sculpture in its rough state and cannot say how it looked when finished. The stones are rough, as they were when taken from the ground. 10 general, approximate, inexact, cursory, quick, hasty, sketchy, vague, hazy; foggy, Colloq ballpark: Can't you give me even a rough idea of how much you want for the house? 11 unfair, unjust, bad, tough; unlucky, unfortunate: We went through a spell of rough luck last year. This is a rough time for everyone. 12 See rotten, 5, above. --n. 13 rowdy, tough, hooligan, ruffian, thug, brawler, yahoo, Slang roughneck, Australian larrikin, US mug: Phil will get into trouble if he continues to associate with those roughs at the Lantern. 14 sketch, (rough) draft, mock-up, outline: Let me see roughs of the presentation before the meeting with the client. --v. 15 rough out or in. sketch, draft, mock-up, outline, mark out, trace, block out: Our escape plan was roughed out by Captain Gallagher. 16 rough up. beat (up), thrash, attack, batter, assault, pummel or pommel, lay on, knock about, belabour, lambaste, Colloq wallop: Some of the boys roughed him up a bit when they learned that he was an informer. --adv. 17 violently, savagely, brutally, brutishly: You'd best not mention Cassie or Henry might cut up rough.
roundabout adj. 1 circuitous, circular, indirect, long: We had plenty of time so we came the more scenic, roundabout way. 2 devious, circuitous, evasive, indirect, oblique: If you wanted to borrow some money, asking me for tax advice was quite a roundabout way of asking. --n. 3 merry-go-round, carousel or carrousel, Old-fashioned or dialect whirligig: The children weren't the only ones who enjoyed themselves on the roundabout. 4 Brit mini-roundabout, US and Canadian rotary, traffic circle: When you come to the roundabout, turn right and keep going till you come to a traffic light.
rout n. 1 defeat, trouncing, ruin, overthrow, subjugation, vanquishment, dbcle, conquest, thrashing, drubbing, beating; dispersal, retreat, collapse; Colloq licking, hiding, US and Canadian shellacking: Owing to the government's overwhelming forces, there was a complete rout of the rebels. --v. 2 defeat, win (out) over, trounce, ruin, overthrow, bring down, subjugate, subdue, suppress, vanquish, conquer, overwhelm, overpower, put to rout or flight, worst, best, trample, overrun, thrash, trim, whip, drub, beat, crush, batter, smash, shatter, cut to pieces or ribbons or shreds, destroy, devastate, wipe out, eliminate, put down, seal the doom or the fate of, eradicate, obliterate, Colloq lick, wipe the floor with, polish off, knock off, Hyperbolic sports jargon pulverize, make mincemeat of, ride roughshod over, demolish, mangle, ravage, mutilate, flatten, squash, topple, lay waste, wreak havoc (up)on, ravage, massacre, murder, exterminate, annihilate, liquidate, smother, stifle, do away with, Slang clobber, do in, US skunk, Chiefly US and Canadian cream: Queens Park Rangers routed Manchester United 6-0.
row n. line, rank, tier, bank, string, series, file: A row of trees serves as a wind-break along one side of the farm.
royal adj. 1 queenly, kingly, queenlike, kinglike, regal, imperial, sovereign, princely, majestic: The Royal Family usually spend their summer holidays at Balmoral. The establishment proudly boasts royal patronage. 2 grand, splendid, stately, impressive, august, imposing, superior, superb, magnificent, majestic: She arrived at the ball in a royal coach drawn by six white horses. --n. 3 king, queen, prince, princess, duke, earl, duchess, viscount, viscountess, baron, baroness, noble, nobleman, noblewoman, peer: Her greatest ambition is to meet a royal in the flesh. 4 royals. royalty, nobility, nobles, peerage: He writes the daily column reporting on the activities of the royals.
rude adj. 1 impolite, discourteous, disrespectful, ungracious, ungallant, unmannerly, ill-mannered, uncivil, bad-mannered, ungentlemanly, unladylike, ill-bred, unrefined, unpolished, uncouth, boorish, churlish, oafish, loutish, coarse, uncivilized, uncultured, unceremonious: It was rude of him not to get up when she came in, but he doesn't know any better. 2 impertinent, impudent, discourteous, insulting, insolent, offensive, saucy, bold, disrespectful, uncivil, flippant, brusque, curt, gruff, tactless, outrageous, Colloq fresh: I simply asked the chambermaid to make up my room early and she responded with a rude remark. 3 naughty, unrefined, ribald, bawdy, indecent, indelicate, vulgar, obscene, dirty, filthy, lubricious or lubricous, lewd, gross, smutty, taboo, pornographic: Chris has an extensive collection of rude photographs. 4 crude, rough, clumsy, awkward, unskilful, unskilled, artless, inartistic, imperfect, unpolished, inaccurate, gauche, bumbling, raw, inelegant, makeshift, homespun, primitive, misshapen, ill-formed, unfinished, rough-hewn, simple, basic, bare: The replica on view in the local museum is only a rude approximation of the original.
rugged adj. 1 rough, uneven, broken, stony, rocky, irregular, bumpy, pitted, jagged, ragged: The horses picked their way slowly across the rugged terrain. 2 tough, rough, severe, hard, harsh, difficult, arduous, Spartan, rigorous, onerous, stern, demanding, burdensome: It is amazing how that small band of pioneers withstood the rugged life in the untamed West. 3 hardy, durable, strong, sturdy, hale, robust, tough, vigorous, hard, rough-and-ready, stalwart; independent, individualistic, self-reliant, self-confident, self-sufficient, bold: WANTED: Five rugged pioneering types to join an expedition to the source of the Amazon river. 4 rude, uncouth, uncultured, uncivilized, unrefined, unpolished, crude, ungraceful, churlish: I admit that Charlie's manners are a bit rugged, but he's one of the best men we have.
rummage v. 1 search, hunt, comb, scour, scrabble, look through, sift through, turn inside out or upside down, examine, Colloq scrounge: We rummaged about in four dustbins before finding the discarded receipt. --n. 2 jumble, miscellanea, knick-knacks, odds and ends, hotchpotch or US also hodgepodge: May we borrow your car to collect items for the church rummage sale?
run v. 1 sprint, race, scamper, scurry, scud, dart, bolt, dash, flit, tear (along), scoot, scuttle, zip, whiz or whizz, gallop, jog, trot, lope; rush, hurry (up), hasten, scramble, hustle, step lively, hop (to) it, step on it, put on some speed, Archaic hie, Colloq get a move on, hoof it, leg it, hotfoot (it), stir one's stumps, Brit hare, US step on the gas, hump (it), Slang get cracking, US get the lead out (of one's pants or taboo ass), Chiefly US get a wiggle on: If you run, you might catch her before she gets on the train. 2 run away or off, flee, escape, take flight, take to one's heels, bolt, decamp, make off, clear out, show a clean pair of heels, abscond, cut and run, (beat a (hasty)) retreat, retire, make a getaway, (make a) run for it, Colloq beat it, scram, skedaddle, take off, skip (out), take French leave, fly the coop, Slang head for the hills, Brit scarper, do a bunk, US and Canadian take a (run-out) powder, lam out of (somewhere), take it or go on the lam, US vamoose: The minute the enemy appeared, the entire troop ran. Cavendish ran, hoping the police wouldn't catch him. 3 go, cover, pass over, sprint, race: He ran the mile in just under four minutes. 4 wander, rove, roam, meander, drift: Some farmers allow their animals to run free, rather than penning them up. 5 Often, run for. compete (for), be a candidate (for), vie, struggle, contend, fight (for), stand (for): As she has already said she would not stand again, I doubt that she will run for re-election in the council elections. 6 pass, flow, pour, stream, flood, gush, spill, dribble, spurt, issue, move, trickle, seep, discharge, cascade, spout: You can see where the rainwater has run down this crack in the roof and into the room below. 7 flow, diffuse: The colour ran when he washed his red underwear with some white shirts in very hot water. 8 melt, liquefy, dissolve, fuse: It was so hot that the icing on top of the cake began to melt and run down the sides. 9 keep, maintain, support, sustain, manage: It is very expensive to run a large house. 10 operate, manage, direct, supervise, oversee, conduct, superintend, control, handle, manipulate, head, carry on, lead, regulate, take care of, look after, administer, be in charge of, coordinate: She must be a terrifically high achiever to run a huge international conglomerate like that! 11 operate, perform, function, work, tick, go: Even after all that abuse, the watch kept running and kept good time. 12 extend, stretch, reach; amount, add up, total up, come (up): The balance of payments deficit is running to twice last year's figure. His bill at the restaurant last night ran to more than 200. 13 convey, transport, give (someone) a lift, drive, take, bring: Tom said he would run me home in his new car. 14 bootleg, smuggle, deal or traffic in, Chiefly US and Canadian rustle: During Prohibition, his father ran whisky from Canada to the US. 15 be in effect or force, be effective, have force or effect: This lease has another year to run. 16 incur, invite, encourage, attract, be subjected to: Aren't you running a risk asking Sheila to handle your money? 17 propel, drive; steer, guide, navigate: If you are inept enough to run a boat aground, at least have the sense to do it at low tide. 18 unravel, come undone, Chiefly Brit ladder: My stocking ran just before I had to leave for the dance! 19 Sometimes, run off. print, offset, lithograph, reproduce, publish, display; imprint, position, place, locate, lay out: They are going to run his story in the next issue of The Londoner! We'll run the photographs of the fire alongside the article on page one. 20 run across. meet (up with), run into, come across, find, stumble on or upon, hit or chance or happen upon, Colloq bump into: Guess whom I ran across at Harrods yesterday. 21 run after. chase, pursue, go after, court, woo, Colloq set one's cap for: The City is filled with young men and women running after big money. Mick is running after this girl half his age, and he hasn't a clue that she's leading him on. 22 run along. go away, leave, Slang get lost: Sue wanted to get rid of Wayne and told him to run along. 23 run around. philander, be unfaithful, gallivant, Colloq sleep around, play the field: How does she cope with his constant running around? 24 run around with. associate with, spend time with, dally with, consort with: Cynthia is running around with a bad crowd these days. 25 run away. See 2, above. 26 run down. a trace, track, hunt, stalk, follow, pursue, dog, shadow; find, locate, track down, discover: We ran down the suspect in an abandoned barn in Little Fakenham. b criticize, decry, defame, vilify, disparage, deprecate, depreciate, denigrate, Colloq knock, pan: If you keep running him down like that he'll develop an inferiority complex before he's seven. c weaken, tire, expire, play (itself) out, burn out, run out, fail, Colloq peter out: Once the batteries have run down, we will no longer be able to transmit a distress-signal. d strike, hit, smash or crash or slam into, run over, knock over or down, collide with: On the way home, he almost ran down a boy on a bicycle. 27 run in. arrest, take into custody, jail, apprehend, take or bring in, Colloq pinch, nab, pull in, bust, collar, Brit nick: This is the third time this week that Minette has been run in for soliciting. 28 run into. See 20, above. 29 run off. a See 2, above. b duplicate, print, copy, turn out, produce, make, manufacture, generate, Colloq do, churn out: How quickly can you run off 1000 copies of this brochure? 30 run out. a be exhausted, expire, terminate, (come or draw to a) close, end, cease: The time for renewing your subscription has run out. b finish, go, be exhausted, be used up, Colloq peter out: The food had run out and we had no water when we were rescued. 31 run out of. use up, consume, eat up, exhaust, be out of: We've run out of milk - can you nip down to the shop and get some? 32 run out on. desert, abandon, leave high and dry, forsake, leave in the lurch, leave holding the baby: Despite all his promises, Edgar ran out on her when she became pregnant. 33 run over. a See 26 (d), above. b scan, run through, go over, look over, flip or leaf or thumb through, look at, skim (through), browse through, dip into, review: I promised Casey I would run over his article if I had the time. c overflow, spill (over), brim over, slosh over, pour over; extend, reach, spread over, stretch over; exceed, go beyond, overreach, overshoot, surpass, transcend: She accidentally let the bath run over, ruining the ceiling below. This article will run over onto the next page. McClelland always runs over the time allotted to his part of the proceedings. d rehearse, run through, repeat, practise, review, go over, study, learn, memorize: You'd best run over your speech again before the banquet. 34 run through. a pierce, stab, transfix, stick, spit: In the last scene, the hero runs the villain through with his sword before succumbing to his own wounds. b squander, consume, use up, waste, fritter away, exhaust, deplete, spend, dissipate, throw away, Slang blow: It didn't take Hugh more than a year to run through his inheritance. c See 33 (b), above. --n. 35 sprint, dash, race, jog, trot: They go for a two-mile run every morning before breakfast. 36 trip, journey, visit, drive, expedition, trek, outing, excursion, jaunt, junket, sojourn, Colloq spin, joyride: He has to make a run over to Paris for the weekend, supposedly on business. 37 route, routine, circuit, passage, trip, cycle, round; beat: I was on the Murmansk run during the war. 38 period, spate, interval, time, spell, stretch, course; engagement, booking, Colloq patch: Roger has had a run of bad luck and could use some help. The show had a long run on Broadway. 39 access, freedom, liberty: The children had the run of the house for a week while their parents were away. 40 return, satisfaction, reward, recompense, compensation, requital, expiation, atonement, repayment, remuneration: Although the odds are never in your favour, you get a good run for your money at Diamond Lil's Gambling Emporium. 41 series, sequence, stream, spate, string, succession, progression: Will attributed his poor showing at the tournament to a bad run of cards. 42 stream, brook, runnel, creek, rill, rivulet, Brit beck, Scots burn, US branch, kill: There is a small run at the bottom of the hill. 43 demand, call, request: Bouillon cubes seem to have enjoyed quite a run lately. 44 type, category, class, kind, sort: Mark seems to be a bit more refined than the usual run of guest at Lisa's parties. 45 trail, track, piste, path, slope; way, runway: She skied down the north run in record time. 46 enclosure, yard, pen, compound, runway; paddock; pound: There is a good-sized run at the kennel where we board the dogs when we go on holiday. 47 Music roulade, cadenza, arpeggio, riff: The soprano treated us to a marvellous run in which each note was distinct and pure. 48 in the long run. eventually, finally, after all, ultimately, in (due) time, in due course, in fine, in the end, at the end of the day, in the final analysis, all things considered, when all is said and done: Regardless of early troubles, things always seem to turn out all right in the long run in his plays. 49 on the run. a hastily, in haste, hurriedly, while under way, in a hurry, at speed, in a rush: It isn't supposed to be good for you to eat breakfast on the run every day. b on the loose, fleeing, escaping, running, in flight, running (away), Slang US on the lam: He was on the run from the police and desperate to find Duncan. c running, retreating, on the move or the go: They kept the enemy on the run for a week. 50 the runs. diarrhoea, dysentery, upset stomach, Jocular tummy rot, Delhi belly, Aztec hop, turista or tourista, Mexican foxtrot or two-step or toothache, Montezuma's revenge, curse of Montezuma, Rangoon runs, Tokyo trots, Lambeth run(s): I came down with the runs when we got to Ankara.
run-in n. disagreement, argument, dispute, altercation, quarrel, confrontation, contretemps: We had a run-in with our neighbour about playing his hi-fi too loud.
run-through n. 1 rehearsal, practice, trial, test: Let's have one more run-through before tomorrow's dress rehearsal. 2 See run-down, above.
rush v. 1 hurry (up), hasten, run, race, hustle, bustle, make haste, dash, speed, scurry, scramble, scoot, jump, sprint, scamper, scuttle, Colloq move (it), hotfoot (it), skedaddle, step on it, make it snappy, US hightail (it), step on the gas , Slang get moving, get cracking, get a wiggle on, go like a bat out of hell, shake a leg: If you want the job, you'll have to rush to send in your application. Don't rush - there's plenty for everyone. 2 attack, assault, charge, storm, blitz: If we rush them, we might take them by surprise. --n. 3 hurry, haste, hustle, bustle, dash, speed, turmoil, turbulence, flurry, commotion, ferment, pother, ado, to-do, excitement, pell-mell, harum-scarum: What's the rush? 4 surge, sensation, thrill, charge: I felt a rush of pleasure when I saw her coming down the street. --adj. 5 urgent, hurry-up, exigent, high-priority, top-priority, emergency: This is a rush job that must be completed today.
ruthless adj. pitiless, unpitying, cruel, unsympathetic, merciless, unmerciful, harsh, fierce, remorseless, uncompassionate, vicious, savage, ferocious, hard-hearted, callous, unfeeling, tough, severe, heartless, inhuman, brutal, brutish, unrelenting, relentless, Chiefly US and Canadian mean: The jail houses some of the country's most ruthless criminals. In all of history there was no more ruthless a tyrant. sabotage n. 1 destruction, damage, wrecking, impairment: Enemy infiltrators were responsible for the sabotage of our radar. 2 subversion, treachery, treason: When the radar was found damaged, sabotage was suspected. --v. 3 undermine, subvert, disrupt, spoil, ruin, cripple; damage, incapacitate, disable, destroy, wreck, Colloq Brit throw a spanner in(to) the works, US throw a monkey wrench into the machinery, Slang Brit queer (someone's pitch): Only someone who had something to lose would have sabotaged our plan for reorganization. The engine had been sabotaged by pouring sand into the fuel tank.
sacrificial adj. 1 sacrificed, immolated, surrendered, given up, yielded: They led the sacrificial lamb to the slaughter. 2 atoning, expiatory, propitiatory, conciliatory: The solemn sacrificial ceremonies were carried out by the high priestess.
sadden v. depress, deject, sorrow, dishearten, distress, dispirit, discourage, grieve, aggrieve: It saddens me to think of all the starving people.
safe adj. 1 unharmed, whole, uninjured, unhurt, (safe and) sound, secure, protected, shielded, sheltered, out of harm's way, all right, Colloq OK or okay: You'll be safe here with me. 2 harmless, non-toxic, non-poisonous, innocuous; unpolluted: This medication is safe if you do not exceed the recommended dosage. Is the water safe to drink? 3 sure, secure, sound, protected, risk-free, riskless, safe as the Bank of England, reliable, dependable, solid, bona fide, conservative, tried and true, Brit safe as houses: It was previously thought that an investment in Alfordyce Ltd was safe. 4 all right, allowable, permissible, acceptable, satisfactory, appropriate, suitable, timely, right, correct, proper, justifiable, justified, Colloq OK or okay: Is it safe to come out now? 5 secured, protected: The children are safe in bed. Your secret is safe with me. --adv. 6 safely, securely: I won't breathe easy till he's safe behind bars. --n. 7 vault, crypt, strongbox, safe-deposit or safety-deposit box, coffer, chest, repository: The necklace is kept in the safe and I never get a chance to wear it.
sag v. 1 droop, sink, slump, bend, dip; swag, bag: The board sagged precariously under his weight. Without a breath stirring, the banners sagged in the humid air. 2 drop, decrease, decline, go or come down, fall, slide, slip, weaken, slump, descend, diminish, lessen, droop, subside, flag, falter, wilt: The value of the dollar sagged in world markets today. --n. 3 sagging, drop, droop, sinking, sinkage, subsidence, dip; reduction, decrease, decline, fall, slide, weakening, slump, lessening, flagging, faltering: If you stand over here you can see a definite sag in the roof. The sag in profits was attributed to a poor response to the new model.
saintly adj. holy, blessed, blest, beatific, godly, sainted, angelic, seraphic, pure, righteous, virtuous, blameless: Donald was such a saintly man, it was impossible to think ill of him.
salesperson n. salesman, saleswoman, saleslady, salesgirl, sales-clerk, clerk, Chiefly Brit shop-girl, Brit shop assistant, Old-fashioned counter-jumper: The shop is noted for its wide range of merchandise and the efficiency and courtesy of its salespeople.
salvage v. 1 save, recover, rescue, redeem, deliver, retrieve, reclaim: Were you able to salvage anything of value after the fire? --n. 2 recovery, rescue, retrieval, redemption, deliverance, reclamation, salvation: The salvage of a vessel or cargo at sea invests the salvager with legal rights under certain conditions.
sanatorium n. rest-home, convalescent home, nursing home, clinic, health farm, US also sanitarium: After spending a month recuperating in a Swiss sanatorium, Gladys was as good as new.
sanctity n. piety, holiness, saintliness, divinity, grace, sacredness, godliness, devotion, dedication: The arguments of the anti-abortionists were based on a belief in the sanctity of all human life.
sang-froid n. cold-bloodedness, coolness, cool-headedness, indifference, composure, phlegm, self-possession, self-control, poise, imperturbability, equanimity, Colloq unflappability, cool, coolth: What amazed us was the remarkable sang-froid displayed by even the smallest children in the face of bullying.
sanity n. saneness, reason, mental health or soundness, normality, rationality, reason, reasonableness, stability, balance: Have you any reason for suspecting her sanity?
sarcastic adj. scornful, contumelious, derisive, derisory, ridiculing, bitter, biting, cutting, trenchant, incisive, acrimonious, acerbic, acid, acidic, acidulous, harsh, acrid, aspersive, venomous, poisonous, virulent, spiteful, malicious, malefic, malevolent, satiric(al), ironic(al), cynical, disdainful, mocking, contemptuous, critical, censorious, captious, carping, cavilling, sardonic, scathing, caustic, nasty: I don't think he knows how hurtful his sarcastic remarks can be.
satiate v. 1 stuff, glut, gorge, cloy, surfeit, overfill, overstuff, glut, pall, overindulge, saturate, choke, deluge, flood, choke, suffocate, weary, exhaust, bore, tire, jade: The travellers were so satiated with food and drink that nothing could wake them. 2 slake, satisfy, quench, content, gratify, sate: I felt the it would take at least a gallon of water to satiate my thirst.
satirize v. lampoon, burlesque, parody, caricature, travesty, poke fun at, (hold up to) ridicule, make fun or sport of, pillory, deride, mock; mimic, imitate; Colloq take off, put down, Brit send up: Since ancient times writers have satirized the follies of their age.
satisfying adj. gratifying, satisfactory, fulfilling, filling, satiating; comforting, pleasing, pacifying, pleasurable: That was a very satisfying meal. It is a satisfying feeling to know that you are happy.
savage adj. 1 wild, untamed, undomesticated, feral, unbroken: These savage beasts had never seen a man before. 2 vicious, ferocious, fierce, beastly, bestial, brutish, bloodthirsty, brutal, cruel, ruthless, pitiless, merciless, harsh, bloody, unmerciful, fell, barbarous, barbaric, murderous, demonic, demoniac, sadistic: The boy was subjected to a savage attack by the defendant's dog. The king's guards were selected for their savage nature. 3 wild, uncivilized, uncultivated, primitive, inhuman, bestial, barbaric, barbarous, untamed, rude: The savage behaviour of some New Guinea tribes included cannibalism. --n. 4 wild man or woman, brute, barbarian; Caliban: When the explorers landed on the island, they were welcomed by the savages who lived there.
savoir faire n. tact, tactfulness, sophistication, finesse, urbanity, discretion, knowledgeability, diplomacy, urbanity, smoothness, polish, suavity or suaveness, poise, grace, style, skill, adroitness, knowledge, comprehension, Slang savvy: She felt a vague sense of social inferiority, an uneasy lack of savoir faire.
saw n. proverb, maxim, (old) saying, aphorism, apophthegm or apothegm, axiom, adage, epigram, gnome; slogan, motto, catchword, catch-phrase, byword; dictum, platitude, truism, clich, commonplace: She always quoted to him the old saw, 'A fool and his mother are soon parted'.
scale n. 1 flake, imbrication; scurf, dandruff; Technical squama, plate, scute or scutum, lamina, lamella: Scrape the scales off the fish with a sharp knife before gutting it. 2 coating, encrustation or incrustation, crust, overlay, layer, cake, caking, tartar, plaque: The hardness of the water causes the scale inside the kettle.
scandal n. 1 shame, disgrace, embarrassment, sin, outrage: It is a scandal how much of the money raised for charity goes into the pockets of the fund-raisers. 2 discredit, damage, calumny, ignominy, obloquy, dishonour, degradation, disrepute, infamy: The scandal resulting from their being found together could never be lived down. The breath of scandal never touched her. 3 slander, libel, aspersion, innuendo, insinuation, abuse, dirt, defilement, defamation, slur, smear, taint, blemish, spot, stigma, smirch, black mark or spot, blot (on the escutcheon), (badge of) infamy, skeleton in the cupboard, Brit blot on one's copybook: His cowardice brought scandal to the name that could never be lived down.
scapegoat n. victim, front, dupe, gull, cat's-paw, whipping-boy, Brit man of straw, Aunt Sally, US straw man, Colloq fall guy, Slang sucker: We have to find a scapegoat to take the punishment for us.
scarcity n. lack, want, need, paucity, dearth, insufficiency, shortage, inadequacy, inadequateness: The teaching of foreign languages is not improved by the scarcity of qualified teachers.
scathing adj. searing, withering, damaging, harmful, severe, harsh, stern, nasty, biting, acrid, acrimonious, mordant, incisive, cutting, sharp, keen, virulent, vitriolic, acid, scorching, burning, fierce, savage, ferocious: She was totally unprepared for the critics' scathing attack on her book.
scenario n. 1 (master or ground or floor) plan, (grand) scheme, plot, schema, design, outline, layout, framework, structure; sequence of events, routine: According to this scenario, the bank will provide the financing and we shall organize the take-over. 2 (plot) summary, prcis, rsum, synopsis; (working or shooting) script, screenplay: The scenario for the film was a joint venture between the director and the author of the book on which it was based.
sceptic n. doubter, questioner, doubting Thomas, disbeliever, nullifidian, agnostic, scoffer, cynic: You'll always find some sceptics who don't believe that a woman could be a good prime minister.
schematic adj. 1 diagrammatic(al), representational, graphic, charted: We have the schematic drawings showing the placement of the equipment. --n. 2 diagram, blueprint, layout, (floor or game) plan, scheme, design, representation, graph, (flow or PERT) chart: Give copies of the schematics to the electricians so that they can plan where to put the wiring.
schismatic adj. schismatical, separatist, breakaway, divisive, dissident, heretical: The schismatic movement in art was marked by one faction's abandonment of realism.
school n. 1 (educational) institution, kindergarten, nursery school, primary or grammar or secondary or high school, institute, college, university, seminary; Alma Mater; boarding-school, day-school; public school, private school, Brit State school; lyce; Lyceum, Brit first or middle school, US junior high school: His mother was very upset when he hinted that he might quit school. 2 set, coterie, circle, clique, group, denomination, faction, sect, followers, devotees, adherents, votaries, disciples; style, kind, form, manner, fashion: Burne-Jones belonged to the Pre-Raphaelite School of painters. 3 philosophy, principles, creed, set of beliefs, way of life, persuasion, credo, dogma, teaching, view, opinion, faction, approach: Regarding the creation of the universe, do you support the big-bang school or the steady-state school? --v. 4 teach, educate, drill, inculcate, instil, indoctrinate, instruct, tutor, train, discipline, coach, prepare, prime, equip, ready; mould, shape, form; school in, imbue with, infuse with: Young ladies were schooled in all the social graces.
science n. 1 (body of) knowledge or information, (body of) laws or principles, discipline, study, branch, field, area, subject, realm, sphere: Many new sciences have sprung up even in the past fifty years. DNA research falls properly into the science of microbiologic genetics. 2 skill, art, technique, expertise, proficiency, method, system: He made a science of brewing tea.
scoff v. 1 devour, put away, gorge oneself on, wolf (down), bolt, stuff (oneself with), gobble (up or down), guzzle, gulp (down), Brit gollop: The two of them scoffed every crumb they could find. --n. 2 food, victuals, rations, edibles, provisions, Colloq grub, eats, chow, Slang Brit prog: In no time at all, they had cleared out every last bit of scoff in the larder.
scorch v. sear, blacken, burn, roast, singe, char: Though scorched in the fire, the papers were saved intact.
scornful adj. contumelious, contemptuous, disdainful, deprecative, disparaging, derisory, derisive, snide, supercilious, mocking, sneering, scoffing, haughty, overweening, high-handed, superior, Colloq snooty, Slang snotty: The people were scornful of his attempt to reassure them, and continued to demand action.
scout v. 1 Often, scout about or around. reconnoitre, investigate, study, research, examine, explore, spy, search or look (about or around) (for), hunt (about or around) (for), cast around or about (for), Colloq check (about or around): I am going to scout about to find a key that fits. 2 scout up or out. discover, find, locate, uncover, Colloq dig up: I was finally able to scout up a key that fits.
scrap n. 1 fight, brawl, fracas, fray, affray, rumpus, scuffle, Donnybrook, battle (royal); row, dispute, argument, quarrel, disagreement, wrangle, squabble, tiff, spat, Colloq ruckus, set-to, dust-up: A terrible scrap broke out in the pub last and the police were called in. Our neighbours were having a scrap about who should take the dog for a walk. --v. 2 fight, brawl, spar, scuffle, battle, row, wrangle, argue, disagree, squabble, bicker: Let's not scrap over trifles - only important things.
scratchy adj. 1 itchy, irritating, prickly: The pullover was as scratchy as a hair shirt. 2 rough, hoarse, raw, grating, sore, raspy, dry: My throat feels a bit scratchy and I need something to drink.
screen n. 1 partition, (room) divider, paravent, wall: In their one-room flat a bookcase serves as a screen to separate the living area from the sleeping area. 2 shelter, protection, shield, cover: A row of poplars acts as a screen against the wind. 3 curtain, blind, shroud, cloak, cover; concealment, camouflage: The gauze fabric was too transparent to act as a screen. 4 sieve, mesh, strainer, filter, colander, riddle: The sand has to be shovelled through a screen to get rid of the stones. 5 motion pictures, movies, silver screen; television, small screen, home screen, Colloq box, telly, US boob tube: She is a star of both the big and small screens. --v. 6 partition (off), separate, divide, wall off: Why not use a beaded curtain to screen the kitchen area from the dining-room? 7 shelter, protect, shield, cover, guard, conceal, camouflage, mask, veil, hide: A decorative pierced wall screens the ladies of the harem from the prying eyes of visitors. 8 sift, separate (out), sort (out), filter, select, cull, process, interview, evaluate, grade, gauge, qualify, examine, scan, Chiefly Brit vet: The agency screens all candidates before sending them to see a client.
script n. 1 handwriting, hand, (cursive) writing, penmanship; calligraphy: These love-letters are written in an unusually beautiful script. 2 manuscript, scenario, book, play, screenplay, teleplay, libretto, continuity: Stick to the script - I don't want you ad libbing! --v. 3 write, pen, prepare, create: The new series was scripted by the same writer who wrote 'Out in the Outback'. 4 plan, organize, design, arrange, lay out, order, configure, pattern: The take-over of the company had not been scripted in their business forecasts.
scruple n. 1 compunction, qualm, reluctance, misgiving, second thoughts, doubt, (twinge of) conscience, hesitation, uneasiness, discomfort, squeamishness: Peter hadn't the slightest scruple about taking the money from his aunt. --v. 2 pause, falter, hesitate, vacillate, have doubts or compunction (about), demur, waver, shrink from or at, have misgivings or qualms (about or over), be loath or loth (to), think twice (about), stick at, be reluctant, balk (at), have scruples (about): Susan didn't scruple for a moment about keeping the money she found in the street.
scud v. fly, skim, race, scoot, speed, shoot: We scudded along in the catamaran at a good 30 knots.
scurvy adj. low, miserable, contemptible, vile, base, despicable, rotten, sorry, bad, ignoble, dishonourable, mean, worthless, shabby: Robbing poor old ladies is a pretty scurvy activity.
seal n. 1 symbol, token, mark, insigne (pl. insignia), sign, signet, crest, bearing, coat of arms, escutcheon, emblem, badge, monogram, identification, cartouche, design, imprint, stamp: The seal on his ring showed a crouching lion. 2 authentication, confirmation, verification, validation, affirmation, attestation, ratification, corroboration, assurance, guarantee or guaranty, endorsement, substantiation, evidence, notice, notification: Management set their seal of approval on the plans. --v. 3 Sometimes, seal off or up. close (off or up), shut (off), zip up, plug (up), stop (up), lock, bolt, secure, batten down, make airtight or waterproof; cork: All exits had been sealed off. They sealed up the windows so that no air could get in. 4 authenticate, confirm, verify, validate, affirm, attest, ratify, clinch, corroborate, assure, ensure, guarantee, endorse: The peace treaty was sealed by the marriage of the king to the emperor's daughter.
searchingly adv. penetratingly, piercingly, intently, deeply, fixedly, concentratedly, eagerly: She looked searchingly into my eyes for some glimmer of hope.
seasoning n. spice, zest, flavour, relish, sauce: The fact that a former film star was running for office lent just the right seasoning to the campaign. seat n. 1 place, chair, bench, sofa, settee, settle, stool, throne: He found a seat and waited to be called. 2 focus, base, centre, heart, hub, site, capital, cradle, headquarters, fountain-head: In those days, Paris was the main seat of learning in western Europe. Istanbul was established as the seat of the Turkish empire. 3 membership, position, incumbency: His grandfather held a seat in the House of Commons. 4 bottom, buttocks, posterior(s), rump, hindquarters, fundament, derrire, Colloq behind, butt, backside, rear (end), Brit bum, US fanny, tushie, tush, tokus, hinie, Slang tail, Brit arse, US ass: He needs a swift kick in the seat to get him to move. 5 abode, residence, home, domicile, estate, mansion: The duchess used to spend the summer at her country seat in Norfolk. --v. 6 hold, accommodate, have room or space or capacity for, contain, sit: The new auditorium will seat more than four thousand. 7 install or instal, enthrone, ensconce, instate, invest, establish, place, swear in: Once Lord Carter has been seated, it will be difficult to get rid of him.
secluded adj. 1 private, separate, isolated, lonely, cloistered, sequestered, detached, solitary, retired, eremitic, monastic: He lives a very secluded life on an island in the Outer Hebrides. 2 off the beaten track, out-of-the-way, remote, far-away, far-off, separate, segregated, private: He chose a secluded island in the Outer Hebrides for his vacation.
secondary adj. 1 less important, unimportant, inessential or unessential, non-essential, non-critical, subsidiary, ancillary, minor, inferior, subordinate: These secondary matters can be dealt with after the important ones. 2 derivative, derived, indirect, second-hand, unoriginal, not original; copied, imitated: His biography of Queen Victoria was based entirely on secondary sources. 3 auxiliary, second-line, backup, extra, reserve, spare, provisional, supporting, supportive, alternate, alternative: We were forced to rely on our secondary defences after the enemy cavalry broke through.
secrete v. hide, conceal, cache, bury, cloak, shroud, enshroud, camouflage, mask, disguise, Slang stash away: They secreted the haul from the robbery in the cellar of a house in Balham.
secretly adv. surreptitiously, quietly, privately, covertly, on the qt or QT, furtively, stealthily, mysteriously, clandestinely, in secret, confidentially, on the sly, slyly, sub rosa, sub sigillo: I can tell you secretly that she is wanted by the police. Henry secretly rents videotape cartoons to watch at weekends.
secular adj. worldly, terrestrial, mundane, temporal, material, lay, laic or laical, non-clerical, non-ecclesiastic(al), non-spiritual, non-religious, civil, state: Once he had taken his vows, he put aside secular matters.
sedative n. 1 narcotic, tranquillizer, opiate, sleeping-pill, soporific, calmative, anodyne, depressant, hypnotic, barbiturate, lenitive, Colloq downer, knock-out drop, Slang Mickey (Finn): The doctor has given him a sedative and he should sleep now. --adj. 2 narcotic, tranquillizing, relaxing, soothing, calming, allaying, opiate, soporific, sleep-inducing, calmative, anodyne, lenitive, depressing, hypnotic: I found that listening to a recording of surf splashing on a beach has a sedative effect.
seditious adj. rebellious, mutinous, revolutionary, insurgent, inflammatory, rabble-rousing, insurrectionist, insurrectionary, refractory, subversive, treacherous, dissident, disloyal, turncoat, unfaithful: One seditious action on the part of the colonists was to dump tea into the harbour at Boston, Massachusetts.
seductress n. See also seducer, above. temptress, siren, femme fatale, enchantress, Circe, Lorelei, Jezebel, vamp: That clever seductress will soon have him eating out of her hand.
seeing conjunction. in view of (the fact that), whereas, in (the) light of, inasmuch as, since, considering: Seeing that you are here, you might as well tell her yourself.
seemingly adv. apparently, evidently, ostensibly, outwardly, superficially, falsely, allegedly, speciously, purportedly, professedly, on the face of it, possibly, feasibly, conceivably, plausibly, believably: The purpose of this seemingly honest confession was to throw the detectives off the scent.
see-through adj. sheer, diaphanous, gauzy, transparent, translucent, gossamer, filmy, peekaboo: She was wearing a see-through neglige when she appeared at the door.
seize v. 1 Sometimes, seize on. grab, grasp, clutch, take (hold of), grip, snatch: Robin felt that he had to seize every opportunity that presented itself. The dog seized the robber by the seat of the pants. 2 capture, catch, arrest, take into custody, take prisoner, apprehend, round up, Colloq pinch, nab, collar, pick up, Brit nick, Slang bust: The police seized him as he was trying to leave the country. 3 catch, transfix, stop, hold, possess, take possession of, afflict, beset, visit, subject: I was seized by a sudden desire to kiss those quivering, pouting lips. 4 take advantage of, make good use of: When their attention was diverted, I seized the opportunity to escape. 5 confiscate, take (away), commandeer, appropriate, capture, take possession of, impound: Ten tons of cannabis was seized in the raid. 6 seize up, bind, jam, stop, lock (up), stick, freeze (up): Because of the excessive heat, the gears seized and the engine stalled.
selection n. 1 choice, pick, preference, option: Please make your selection from the merchandise in this display. 2 assortment, variety, collection, range, batch, number, set, series, group: Tonight I shall play for you a selection of jazz recordings made at the Savoy. 3 selecting, choosing, picking, singling out, electing, settling on, voting for, opting for, choice, pick, election: Selection has been delayed till tomorrow. 4 extract, quotation, excerpt, abstract, passage, piece, quote: I shall read you a selection from Blake's Songs of Innocence and Experience .
self-confident adj. confident, self-assured, assured, poised, self-reliant, secure, sure of oneself, positive, definite, assertive, independent: She seems much more self-confident, relaxed, and contented these days.
self-denial n. 1 self-sacrifice,self-abnegation, renunciation, selflessness, altruism, unselfishness, magnanimity: His contributions must have been made at the cost of some self-denial. 2 hardship, suffering, self-mortification, asceticism, privation, renunciation, renouncing, abstemiousness, abstinence, abstention, self-deprivation, keeping away from, refusal, refusing, giving up, desisting, Colloq swearing off: As far as certain foods are concerned, a little self-denial is good for one's health. 3 See self-control, 1, above.
self-important adj. conceited, self-centred, self-seeking, self-absorbed, vain, egotistic(al), self-satisfied, smug, pompous, swollen-headed, swell-headed, arrogant, overweening, overbearing, vainglorious, self-glorifying, self-engrossed, presumptuous, snobbish, haughty, Colloq snooty, Slang snotty, stuck-up: That self-important little cockalorum ought to be taken down a few pegs.
self-made adj. independent, self-reliant, entrepreneurial, self-sufficient: She is a self-made woman and has accomplished it all without anyone else's help.
self-styled adj. would-be, self-called, soi-disant, professed, self-appointed, self-christened, so-called, quasi-: The building has been designed by a firm of self-styled 'neo-traditionalist' architects.
seller n. dealer, vendor, merchant, retailer, shopkeeper, salesperson, salesman, saleswoman, saleslady, sales agent, representative, traveller, travelling salesman, peddler, hawker, colporteur, sutler, chandler, Old-fashioned counter-jumper, Brit shop assistant, -monger (as in costermonger, ironmonger, fishmonger, etc.), US and Canadian sales-clerk, clerk, shop-girl, Colloq rep, US drummer: Time ran out on his job as a seller of water-clocks and hourglasses.
send v. 1 Sometimes, send off. dispatch or despatch, commission, charge, depute, delegate, assign: The pope sent an emissary to London. 2 communicate, transmit, convey, deliver, consign, address to, mail, post, fax, remit, ship, forward; broadcast, telecast, televise, radio, telegraph: The message is being sent to all concerned. 3 release, discharge, shoot, propel, fire, fling, project, hurl; cast, throw, toss, let fly: With a great burst of flame the satellite was sent into orbit. 4 delight, please, charm, enrapture, stir, thrill, move, electrify, Slang turn (someone) on: That saxophone solo really sends me. 5 send down. imprison, incarcerate, send away, jail or Brit also gaol Slang US send up (the river): If she doesn't mend her ways, she'll be sent down. 6 send for. call for, summon, order, request, ask for: I have sent for a taxi which should be here shortly. 7 send forth or out. emit, radiate, discharge, give off, exude, grow: The object sent forth a strange phosphorescent glow. In the spring, the vine sends forth tendrils. 8 send off. send (someone) away, send (someone) away or off with a flea in his or her ear, dismiss, discharge, send (someone) packing, send (someone) about his or her business, Colloq give (someone) his or her walking papers, Slang give (someone) the brushoff, US give (someone) the brush: I went to the office as you instructed, but they just sent me off with no explanation. 9 send up. a lampoon, satirize, burlesque, parody, make fun of, Colloq take off, spoof, Brit take the mickey out of: In Britain one of the enduring forms of humour is in sending up the government. b imprison, incarcerate, send away, jail or Brit also gaol, Slang US send up the river: He was sent up for insider trading.
senior citizen n. elderly person, retired person, pensioner, Brit OAP (='old-age pensioner'), grey panther, Chiefly US retiree, golden-ager: Special tax provisions have been made for senior citizens.
senseless adj. 1 insensible, unconscious, (knocked) out (cold), stunned, insensate, comatose: Agatha's head hit the fire-grate and she was borne senseless to her room. 2 numb(ed), insensate, unfeeling, benumbed, unfeeling, insensible, anaesthetized, dead, deadened, insentient: My feet are senseless from the cold. 3 pointless, purposeless, ridiculous, ludicrous, unintelligent, illogical, irrational, incongruous, meaningless, absurd, wild, mad, crazy, demented, insane, asinine, nonsensical, imbecilic or imbecile, idiotic, moronic, simple-minded, fatuous, stupid, foolish, silly, dizzy, halfwitted, mindless, brainless, witless, empty-headed, thimble-witted, pea-brained, bird-brained, hare-brained, feather-headed, rattle-brained, addle-pated, muddle-headed, Colloq daft, US daffy, nutty, batty, Slang wacky, dippy: Many of the government's objections to the plan are just senseless posturing. He is promoting some senseless plan for double-decker motorways.
sensitivity n. 1 sensitiveness, delicacy, touchiness, over-sensitivity, hypersensitivity, supersensitivity; soreness, irritability: The sensitivity of teenagers to criticism is well known to teachers and parents. She complained of sensitivity and pain in the pelvic region. 2 compassion, concern, sympathy, tenderness, tender-heartedness, kind-heartedness, kindliness, warmth, feeling: The nurses exhibit a genuine sensitivity for the problems of the handicapped. 3 awareness, consciousness, acuteness, perception, understanding, intuition, feeling, sense, sensitivity, sensitiveness, receptivity or receptiveness, receptibility, appreciation, appreciativeness, susceptibility, susceptivity or susceptiveness: Harvey has a keen sensitivity for the feelings of others. Sometimes I think the duke lacks the sensitivity needed to sympathize with the needy.
sentence n. judgement, decision, ruling, verdict, decree, determination; punishment, Slang rap: It is up to the judge to announce the sentence of the court. Asked by his teacher for an example of a short sentence, Johnny replied, 'Thirty days'.
sentinel n. sentry, guard, watchman, watch, picket, lookout, patrol: The sentinels measured out the ramparts of the fortress with their regular paces.
separation n. 1 rift, break, split, split-up, divorce, break-up, disunion, estrangement: Their separation, after forty years, was a surprise. 2 partition, division, split, schism, dividing line, dissociation, disassociation, severance: The United States constitution provides for the separation of church and state. 3 disintegration, shattering, break-up, fragmentation, dismemberment, taking or keeping apart, segregation, division, disjoining, disjunction, fission, scission, rupture, schism, splitting, split, fracturing, fracture, break: After a crash, investigators supervise the separation of the aeroplane into its tens of thousands of component parts.
sequential adj. successive, ordered, orderly, serial, progressive, organized, systematic, cyclic, continuous: Would you please put these periodicals into sequential order?
serious adj. 1 grave, solemn, earnest, unsmiling, poker-faced, straight-faced, sedate, sober, pensive, thoughtful; humourless, sombre, grim, dour, severe: One should be wary of the person who is always serious, who cannot see the ludicrous side of life. 2 grave, important, vital, dangerous, weighty, significant, momentous, crucial, consequential, life-and-death or life-or-death, urgent, pressing; no laughing matter, of consequence or moment or importance: Things like the greenhouse effect and the hole in the ozone layer are serious concerns for all mankind. 3 sincere, straightforward, not joking or fooling, genuine, honest: Is he serious about wanting me to fetch him a left-handed wrench? 4 acute, critical, life-threatening, bad, dangerous, nasty, perilous, alarming, grave, severe, precarious: His condition is serious and we might have to operate tonight. She had no idea that measles could be such a serious illness.
serrated adj. sawlike, saw-shaped, sawtoothed, toothed, notched, zigzag, jagged, serrate, serriform, serratiform, serrulate(d), crenellated, crenulate, crenate, denticulate: A knife with a serrated edge would cut the meat more easily.
service n. 1 help, assistance, aid, use, usefulness, utility, benefit, advantage: May I be of service to you? You could do me a great service by not saying anything of this to my mother. 2 maintenance, overhaul, servicing, checking, repair, mending: Must we send the copier out for service or can they do it in the office? 3 serving, accommodation, amenities, waiting, care: The food is good but the service leaves much to be desired. 4 employment, employ: How long have you been in my service, Jones? 5 use, utilization, usage, handling: This old teapot has seen much service. 6 assignment, post, appointment, Military Brit secondment: Oscar was on service in the Far East during the war. 7 rite, ceremony, ritual, worship: I shall be attending a memorial service for Grimes on Saturday. 8 Often, services. army, navy, air force, marines; armed forces or services, military: He was a pianist before joining the service. 9 Often, services. talents, help, professional care, work, advice: You will need the services of a good accountant. 10 serve, serving; putting into play: Clarke's tennis service is faster and more accurate than before.
servitude n. bondage, slavery, thraldom, serfdom, subjugation, enslavement, subjection, vassalage: They were sentenced to ten years' penal servitude.
setting n. mounting, scenery, background, backdrop, locale, location, surroundings, habitat, home, environs, environment, milieu, frame, context, site, placement; stage set or setting, mise en scne, scene: It is quite interesting to see how the animals live in their natural setting. The setting of Hardy's novels is in the West Country.
set-up n. 1 arrangement, system, organization, layout, regime, structure, make-up, composition, framework, frame, construction; conditions, circumstances: This set-up of interlocking directorships makes it difficult to see who answers to whom and who owns what. What, exactly, is the set-up between you and Eustace? 2 prearrangement, trap, Slang put-up job: As soon as I saw the police car, I knew we had walked into a set-up.
severely adv. 1 acutely, seriously, badly, dangerously, dreadfully; permanently, fully, entirely: The accident left him severely handicapped. 2 strictly, harshly, rigorously, austerely, oppressively, relentlessly, mercilessly, cruelly, brutally, savagely, inhumanly, tyrannically: The boys were severely maltreated at the school. 3 sternly, forbiddingly, dourly, gloweringly, gravely, seriously, grimly, unsmilingly, soberly, coldly, coolly, austerely: Mrs Gladwin regarded me severely over the top of her pince-nez. 4 stringently, punitively, harshly, onerously, grievously, painfully: One is punished severely for the slightest infraction of the law. 5 dangerously, acutely, critically, dreadfully, awfully; mortally, fatally, terminally: I am afraid to say that your mother is severely ill. 6 starkly, plainly, barely, modestly, austerely, ascetically, monastically, primitively, simply, crudely, sparsely, sparely: The room is furnished a bit severely for my taste.
sexual adj. 1 sex, reproductive, genital, procreative or procreant, sex, progenitive, propagative: Their current project is an investigation of sexual behaviour in young adults. 2 sensual, sensuous, erotic, carnal, fleshly, voluptuous, libidinous, earthy, bodily, physical, lustful, animal, Colloq sexy: They have a deep sexual attraction to one another.
shackle n. 1 Often, shackles. fetter(s), leg-iron(s), chains, iron(s), bilboes, gyve(s), ball and chain, manacle(s), handcuff(s), restraint(s), bond(s), trammel(s), Colloq cuff(s), Slang bracelet(s), Brit darbies: When those shackles went round his ankles, he thought he'd never see them taken off. 2 Usually, shackles. restriction, restraint, deterrent, impediment, check, obstacle, obstruction, barrier, hindrance, bar, encumbrance: When shall we throw off the shackles of ignorant prejudice and see a truly free world? --v. 3 chain, fetter, manacle, handcuff, bind, restrain, tie, secure, truss, pinion, tether: He was shackled to the mast and whipped for disobedience. In this glorious spring weather I resent being shackled to a desk. 4 restrain, hold back, check, deter, hinder, discourage, hobble, handicap, restrict, curb, rein, bridle, control, fetter, inhibit, limit: Freedom of expression has been shackled during all those years of oppression.
shady adj. 1 See shadowy, 1, above. 2 indistinct, indefinite, questionable, doubtful, uncertain, unreliable, suspicious, suspect, dubious, shifty, disreputable; devious, tricky, slippery, underhand(ed), unethical, unscrupulous, dishonourable, dishonest, Colloq fishy, crooked, bent, not (strictly) kosher: The minister's shady past will be revealed in the next issue of Tribune . She got involved with some shady character who had just come out of prison.
shake-up n. reorganization, rearrangement, overhaul, revamp, restructuring, rehabilitation, make-over, realignment: With new owners you can expect a complete shake-up of top management.
shambles n. chaos, devastation, mess, disaster, Augean stables, pigsty, muddle, pigpen: I can't find anything in this shambles. The campaign degenerated into a complete shambles.
shameful adj. disgraceful, dishonourable, base, low, mean, vile, degrading, indecent, inglorious, deplorable, discreditable, corrupt, disreputable, infamous, ignominious, humiliating, embarrassing, mortifying, humbling, chastening, discomfiting, shaming, blameworthy, scandalous, outrageous, unprincipled: Quentin was known for his shameful behaviour both at school and in the army.
shapely adj. curvaceous, comely, well-proportioned, graceful, neat, well turned out, good-looking, pleasing; voluptuous, Colloq sexy: That slinky black dress certainly sets off her shapely figure to advantage.
sharp-eyed adj. sharp-sighted, eagle-eyed, hawk-eyed, lynx-eyed, gimlet-eyed, keen-sighted, wide awake, wakeful, watchful, observant, (on the) alert, on the qui vive, wary, circumspect, Argus-eyed, cautious, careful: It takes quite a sharp-eyed person to check the accuracy of these circuits.
shed n. lean-to, shelter, structure, addition, penthouse, hut, shack, stall, booth, pen, cote, hutch: The tools are in the shed alongside the barn. shed v. 1 spill: Much blood has been shed in the name of freedom. 2 shine, spread, scatter, throw, cast, let fall, impart, release, focus, pour forth, let fall, radiate: Can you shed a little light on a matter that has puzzled me for years? 3 pour or stream or flow or surge or spill (out or forth), discharge, emanate, emit, drop; exude, ooze, weep: The clouds shed their snow and the world below turned white. Don't shed any tears over me. 4 cast off, doff, drop, abandon; moult, defoliate, desquamate, peel (off), flake (off): The trees shed their leaves. She rushed into the bathroom, shedding her clothes as she went.
sheet n. 1 bed-sheet, crib-sheet, fitted sheet, flat sheet, US contour sheet: How often do you change the sheets on your bed? 2 leaf, folio, page: He tore a sheet of paper from the notebook. 3 pane, panel, plate, slab: The desk has a sheet of glass on top for protection. 4 lamina, lamination, layer, stratum, veneer, membrane: Plywood is made up of a number of thin sheets of pressed wood bonded together for strength. 5 area, expanse, stretch, layer, film, coat, coating, covering, blanket, cover, surface, skin, veneer: The sheet of ice on the road made driving hazardous. 6 newspaper, journal, paper, tabloid, gazette, daily, weekly, monthly, Colloq rag: Have you got a copy of the sheet that published the article about you?
shepherd v. lead, convoy, escort, conduct, guide, usher, take, pursue: I want you, personally, to shepherd Miss Jones through the plant. As this project requires special care, I shall shepherd it through personally.
shifty adj. tricky, artful, shrewd, canny, cunning, foxy, wily, sharp, devious, slick, evasive, smooth, slippery, scheming, designing, conniving, calculating, underhand(ed), conspiratorial, treacherous, traitorous, deceitful, deceiving, duplicitous, two-faced, Janus-faced, dishonest, crooked, untrustworthy, Colloq bent: The shifty scoundrel gave me a bad cheque and did a moonlight flit.
shine v. 1 gleam, glow, shimmer, radiate, beam, glare, flare, glisten, glitter, coruscate, twinkle, sparkle, scintillate, glint, flash, flicker: The light of a candle shone from her window. The stars are shining brightly. I want that brass polished till it shines. 2 polish, burnish, rub (up or down), buff, brush, brighten: You'd best shine your shoes before going for the job interview. 3 excel, surpass, stand out, outshine, be outstanding or pre-eminent or excellent or prominent or conspicuous: She had shone at tennis from a very early age, and first entered Wimbledon when she was twelve. --n. 4 gleam, glow, shimmer, sparkle, brightness, radiance, gloss, lustre, sheen, glaze, patina: That shine was achieved with a little wax and elbow-grease. 5 take a shine to. like, be attracted to, take a fancy to, fancy: Her Great Dane has taken a shine to me and likes to sit on my lap.
shirk v. avoid, evade, shun, dodge, get out of, shrink from, Colloq duck (out of), Brit skive, Military Brit scrimshank, US gold brick: Stop shirking your responsibilities and get to work! Is Callum shirking again?
shocking adj. 1 surprising, astounding, astonishing, amazing, striking, stupefying, numbing, sudden, unexpected, electrifying, startling, Colloq mind-boggling, mind-blowing: It was shocking to see the way the neighbourhood had deteriorated. 2 disgusting, revolting, nauseating, nauseous, sickening, repulsive, abominable, hideous, horrible, horrifying, horrific, horrid, foul, loathsome, abhorrent, ghastly, hideous, unspeakable, dreadful, distressing, outrageous, appalling, monstrous, scandalous: The conditions in the concentration camps were shocking.
shop n. 1 store, boutique, department store: Would you stop at the shop and buy some lettuce? 2 workshop, machine shop: Henry gained experience in operating a lathe at my father's shop. --v. 3 betray, inform on or against, Slang peach on, rat on, snitch on, blow the whistle on: The police persuaded Luke to shop his accomplices in exchange for a lighter sentence. 4 shop for. buy, purchase, seek, look for, research: I've been shopping for a new dishwasher.
shorten v. 1 cut, curtail, cut off or down or short, reduce, diminish, trim; lop off, dock, prune; hem: Please shorten the time you spend in the bathroom in the mornings. This skirt has already been shortened. 2 condense, abridge, abbreviate, digest, compress: Can one shorten the book without losing too much of the characterization?
short-staffed adj. undermanned, short-handed, understaffed: We are usually short-staffed during the summer because of the holiday schedules.
shoulder n. 1 side, edge, verge, margin; breakdown lane: If you have a flat tyre, drive onto the hard shoulder and phone for help. 2 give (someone) the cold shoulder. rebuff, snub, ostracize, send (someone) to Coventry, cold-shoulder, put (someone) down, reject, exclude, freeze (someone) out, shun, avoid, Colloq cut (dead): After his court case, they gave Nicholas the cold shoulder at his club. 3 put (one's or the) shoulder to the wheel. make every effort, make an effort, strive, work hard, pitch in, apply oneself, roll up one's sleeves, set or get to work, Colloq knuckle down, buckle down: If we put our shoulders to the wheel, we ought to be able to get our candidate elected. 4 rub shoulders (with). associate (with), hobnob (with), socialize (with), consort (with), mix (with), fraternize (with), keep company (with): Once in a while, she condescends to come down and rub shoulders with the common people. 5 shoulder to shoulder. side by side, united, as one, cooperatively, jointly, arm in arm, hand in hand, in partnership: If we fight shoulder to shoulder, we can defeat this menace and regain our freedom. 6 straight from the shoulder. directly, straightforwardly, candidly, frankly, honestly, openly, unabashedly, unashamedly, unambiguously, unequivocally, plainly, bluntly, man to man, (with) no holds barred, outright, Colloq without beating about the bush, without pulling (any) punches: I want to tell you, straight from the shoulder, Willie, you're the best pal in the world. --v. 7 push, shove, jostle, hustle, thrust aside, elbow, force: She shouldered everyone aside roughly to fight her way to the bargain counter. 8 support, carry, bear, take upon oneself, take on, accept, assume: Are you ready to shoulder the responsibilities of caring for a family?
shower n. 1 sprinkle, sprinkling, drizzle: Scattered showers are predicted for this afternoon. 2 deluge, torrent, flood, stream, barrage, overflow, abundance, profusion: Showers of confetti rained on the parade from the offices. --v. 3 sprinkle, rain, pour, spray, bombard, fall, descend, drop: Debris and ash from the volcano showered down on the village. 4 lavish, inundate, overwhelm, heap, load (down): On return from her triumphant tour, Sylvia was showered with gifts and praise.
shred n. 1 scrap, fragment, bit, tatter, sliver, snippet, rag, remnant, chip, piece; atom, trace, whit, grain, jot or tittle, scintilla, trace, hint, suggestion, iota, speck: We found shreds from his shirt caught on the thorn-bushes. There isn't a shred of evidence to suggest that she killed him. --v. 2 fragment, tear (up), tatter, rip (up); destroy, demolish; throw away, dispose of, scrap, US trash: At the news of the break-in, he dashed to his office and shredded the incriminating evidence.
shrill adj. high-pitched, ear-splitting, piercing, ear-piercing, sharp, piping, screeching, screechy, penetrating: She let out a shrill cry when she saw what had happened.
shrubbery n. shrubs, planting(s), hedge(s), hedging, hedgerow, thicket, underbrush, brake, bracken, undergrowth, coppice or copse: The fox lay low in the shrubbery till the dogs flushed him out.
shut v. 1 close, fasten, secure, shut up; lock, bolt, seal: Come in and shut the door. 2 shut down. close down, discontinue, cease, suspend, halt, leave off, shut up; switch or turn or shut off, stop: We shut down operations at the Enfield factory last week. Make sure you shut down the machinery before leaving. 3 shut in. a confine, seclude, keep in, pen, fence in, secure: We shut the dog in before we went out. b See 6, (a), below. 4 shut off. a switch or turn off, shut down, Colloq kill, douse, cut (off): They shut off the lights while I was shaving. b separate, isolate, seclude, segregate, sequester, bar, shut out, cut off, send to Coventry: The more violent cases are shut off in another wing. c close (off), shut (down): To save on heating, we shut off part of the house in the winter. 5 shut out. a exclude, eliminate, bar, debar, lock out, ban, keep out or away, disallow, prohibit: Aliens without work permits are shut out from employment. We shut out all hooligans and rowdies. b keep out, screen, exclude, block out, cut out: This window shade shuts out the direct sunlight. c screen, mask, hide, conceal, veil, cover: The house is shut out from view by the hedge. 6 shut up. a confine, shut in, coop (up), cage (in), bottle up, box in; imprison, jail, incarcerate, intern, immure: People suspected of being subversives were shut up during the war. b silence, keep quiet, stifle, mute, gag, shush, Chiefly Brit quieten: As soon as Colin wants to say something, Sidonie shuts him up. c See 1, above. d See 2, above. --adj. 7 closed (up), sealed (up), locked (up), bolted, fastened: There is not much hope of penetrating their shut minds on this issue.
sicken v. 1 fall ill, take sick, contract, be stricken by, come down with or catch something or a bug, fail, weaken: After he seemed to be recovering so well, he suddenly sickened and died. 2 make ill or sick, afflict, affect, disgust, nauseate, turn one's stomach, upset, appal, shock, repel, revolt, repulse, offend, make one's gorge rise; put out: The scene in the abattoir sickened me.
sidestep v. avoid, dodge, circumvent, skirt, evade, shun, steer clear of, Colloq duck: The minister neatly sidestepped all questions about her retirement.
siege n. 1 blockade, encirclement, beleaguerment, besiegement: The siege of Troy lasted ten years. --v. 2 lay siege to, besiege, blockade, beleaguer, cordon off, encircle, box or pen or shut in, bottle up: They sieged the city and the inhabitants surrendered when they ran out of food and water.
sign n. 1 token, symbol, indication, mark, signal, indicator; notice: I interpreted the shouts of the crowd as a sign that I had won the race. 2 movement, gesture, motion, signal, cue, gesticulation: She made a sign motioning me to come over. 3 trace, indication, evidence, mark, clue, hint, suggestion, vestige: She waited for an hour but there was no sign of him. 4 device, mark, symbol, representation, emblem, trade mark, badge, brand, stamp, seal, ideogram, ideograph, lexigram, phonogram, grapheme, hieroglyph, cartouche, rebus, logo(type), colophon, ensign, standard, banner, flag; monogram, initials, cipher or cypher: Sir Roger fought under the sign of a rampant lion. 5 signboard, advertisement, placard, poster, US broadside; shingle, notice, announcement: You can't miss the huge supermarket sign at the corner. 6 omen, augury, warning, forewarning, foreboding, portent, indication, writing on the wall, prophecy, prognostication, foreshadowing: We took the rumbling as a sign of an imminent earthquake. --v. 7 autograph, put one's signature on or to, inscribe, countersign, endorse, witness, put or set one's hand to, mark; sign on the dotted line; Colloq US put one's John Hancock on or to: I have already signed the petition, have you? The painting is valueless unless signed by the artist. 8 sign away. forgo, relinquish, give up, abandon, abandon or quit claim to, waive, release, surrender, dispose of, sacrifice, get rid of: With one stroke of the pen, he signed away most of his fortune. 9 sign off. close down, discontinue (broadcasting, writing a letter, etc): It is midnight, time for us to sign off till tomorrow. 10 sign on or up. a enrol, enlist, sign up (for), register, volunteer, join (up), contract: I signed on to be a bodyguard, not a nursemaid. b enrol, enlist, hire, employ, put under contract, retain, engage, take on, Colloq take on board, bring aboard: We signed up three new engineers this week. 11 sign over. assign, consign, transfer, make over, deliver, give, donate, present, dispose of, turn over: Aunt June was persuaded to sign over the ownership of the business to her nephews.
signify v. 1 sign, signal, indicate, communicate, make known, convey, symbolize, betoken, represent, express, announce, declare, denote, say, mean, specify; connote, intimate, suggest, reveal, disclose, impart: She signified her agreement by a nod. What does the phrase 'pursuit of happiness' signify to you? 2 matter, count, be significant or important or consequential, be of significance or of importance or of consequence, carry weight, impress, stand out, deserve or merit consideration: It signifies little that they were found innocent of a crime we all believe they committed.
silhouette n. outline, profile, contour, form, figure, shape, shadow, configuration, periphery, perimeter: I could see the silhouette of a person on the window-blind.
silver n. 1 silverware, sterling, (silver) plate; cutlery, US flatware; hollowware: Guests are coming so I'll have to polish the silver. 2 white, greyish, whitish-grey, greyish-white, grey: When your hair has turned to silver, I will love you just the same. --adj. 3 silvery, shiny, shining, polished, burnished, lustrous, pearly, nacreous, bright, gleaming, Literary or heraldry argent; white: The moon's silver crescent hung low in the sky. Her hair is more silver than grey. 4 silvery, silver-toned, silver-tongued, sweet, pretty, euphonious, melodious, mellifluous, mellifluent, dulcet, musical: The silver tones of the muezzin echoed in the streets, calling the faithful to prayer.
simplicity n. 1 uncomplicatedness; understandability, comprehensibility, lucidity, straightforwardness, clarity, intelligibility, decipherability: Consider the simplicity of some life forms in contrast to the complexity of others. The simplicity of the Bible can be deceptive. 2 plainness, cleanness, clarity, severity, starkness, austereness, asceticism, restraint, bareness, purity: She prefers the simplicity of classical or very modern design to baroque and rococo clutter. 3 sincerity, openness, artlessness, candour, guilelessness, frankness, unsophisticatedness, ingenuousness, straightforwardness, forthrightness, unaffectedness, unpretentiousness, modesty, navety; plainness, directness, inelegance, rusticity, pastoralism: Many have been charmed by the simplicity of the local folk art. 4 stupidity, slow-wittedness, thickheadedness, simple-mindedness, feeble-mindedness, oafishness, cloddishness, obtuseness, dullness, dull-wittedness, witlessness, halfwittedness, imbecility, brainlessness: The simplicity of some of those yokels is incredible.
sin n. 1 trespass, transgression, offence, wrong, impiety, misdeed, profanation, desecration, iniquity, evil, devilry, sacrilege, crime, infraction, misdeed, dereliction, infringement, violation, misdemeanour, fault, foible, peccadillo: How many sins have been committed in the name of righteousness! It's a sin to tell a lie. The seven deadly sins are anger, covetousness, envy, gluttony, lust, pride, and sloth. 2 wickedness, sinfulness, vice, corruption, ungodliness, badness, evil, wrongfulness, iniquity, iniquitousness, immorality, depravity, impiety, irreverence, impiousness, sacrilege: His brother Edmund was conceived in sin, and sin ruled his entire life. --v. 3 transgress, offend, fall (from grace), lapse, go wrong, stray, go astray, err, Biblical or archaic trespass: Strictly speaking, we can sin only against God.
sinew n. 1 ligament, tendon; muscle, thew: After the climb, I ached in every sinew. 2 Usually, sinews. strength, force, power, energy, brawn, vigour, might, stamina, vitality: The sinews of his argument were considerably weakened by her disarming candour.
singe v. char, blacken, sear, scorch, burn: Unfortunately, I singed the tail of my shirt while ironing it.
singly adv. one at a time, separately, individually, one by one, successively, one after the other, seriatim: Taken singly, the facts are not hard to assimilate.
sink v. 1 founder, submerge, go down, go under, plunge, descend, be engulfed: The ship was struck below the water-line and sank in minutes. 2 subside, cave in, collapse, subside, settle, drop, fall in, go down, slip away: The earth suddenly sank beneath our feet. 3 descend, go down, drop, fall, move down or downward(s), go down to or on: The parachute slowly sank to the ground. When he saw the statue move, he sank to his knees, terrified. 4 decline, weaken, worsen, degenerate, subside, deteriorate, flag, fail, diminish, die, expire; languish; Colloq go downhill: Grandfather, sinking fast, summoned the family to his bedside. 5 disappear, vanish, fade away, evaporate; set, go down, descend, drop: After a meteoric rise, many rock stars sink into oblivion. As the sun sank slowly in the west, we returned to our hotel to reminisce about our day at the pyramids. 6 settle, precipitate, descend, drop: After a few minutes, the sand sinks to the bottom. 7 bore, put down, drill, dig, excavate, drive: A special shaft will be sunk just for ventilating the mine. 8 submerge, immerse, plunge: He sank his hand deep into the mud and came up with a small box. 9 stoop, bend, get, go, lower or humble oneself: I never dreamt that he would sink so low as to beg in the streets. 10 invest, venture, risk, put: He sank his life's savings into his son's business, only to see it go bankrupt. 11 sink in. be understood, penetrate, register, make an impression on, get through to: How many times do I have to tell you in order for it to sink in? --n. 12 basin, wash-basin, wash-bowl, lavabo; Church font, stoup, piscina: The kitchen has a large double sink. 13 cesspool, cesspit, pit, hell-hole, den of iniquity, sink-hole, Colloq dive: We found him playing piano in some sink frequented by the worst element of society.
siren n. 1 whistle, warble, wailer, horn, foghorn; signal, alarm, warning, alert, tocsin: The air raid siren sounded and everyone ran for shelter. 2 temptress, seductress, enchantress, charmer, sorceress, femme fatale, Circe, Lorelei, Colloq vamp, US mantrap: Have you seen the latest siren to whom John has fallen prey?
situate v. place in a position or situation or location, place, position, locate, set, spot, put, install or instal: Harwood is very well situated to learn what the high command is planning. The greenhouse should be situated on the south side of the house.
sketchy adj. cursory, superficial, incomplete, patchy, rough, perfunctory, skimpy, imperfect, crude, hasty, hurried, vague, ill-defined, fuzzy, indistinct, inexact, imprecise, unrefined, unpolished, rough-hewn, unfinished: We received only sketchy reports of what was going on in the capital. This will do as a sketchy outline, but eventually the details will need to be filled in.
skin n. 1 epidermis, derma, integument, hide, pelt, fleece, fell: Her skin reddens in the sun. How many skins are needed to make a coat? 2 coat, film, coating, crust, incrustation, husk, peel, rind, outside, shell, pellicle, veneer, outer layer, lamina, overlay: The frame is first covered with a tough plastic skin to make it waterproof. --v. 3 flay, strip, decorticate, excoriate: I shall skin that boy alive if I catch him! 4 peel, hull, husk, shell: This machine skins the fruit automatically. 5 abrade, scrape, graze, bark: She skinned her knee on the edge of the coffee table.
skipper n. captain, master, commander; boss, leader, chief: The skipper gave orders to put him in irons.
slack adj. 1 remiss, careless, indolent, negligent, lax, lazy, idle, neglectful, delinquent, inattentive, otiose, dilatory, cunctatory, laggard, easygoing, slothful, sluggish, lethargic, shiftless, do-nothing, fainant, Colloq asleep at the switch or the wheel, asleep on the job: Production has fallen off because the workers are getting slack. 2 loose, flabby, flaccid, soft, limp, baggy, drooping, droopy, bagging, sagging, floppy: The flag hung down, slack in the still air. --v. 3 Often, slack or slacken off or up. a let go, let run, let loose, release, slacken, loose, loosen, relax, ease (out or off), let up (on): Slack off the stern line a bit. b slow (down or up), delay, reduce speed, tire, decline, decrease, diminish, moderate, abate, weaken: Barnes could not keep up his terrific pace and is beginning to slack off. Business has slackened off since Christmas. 4 neglect, shirk, Colloq Brit skive (off), US goof off, Chiefly military gold-brick, Taboo slang US fuck the dog: Don't let the foreman find you slacking. --n. 5 lull, pause, inactivity, cut-back, lessening, reduction, abatement, drop-off, downturn, diminution, decline, fall-off, decrease, dwindling: How do you compensate for the slack in sales of ski equipment during the summer? 6 room, looseness, slackness, play, give: There's too much slack in that mooring line.
slander n. 1 defamation (of character), calumny, obloquy, misrepresentation, slur, vilification; libel: He spread lies about me and I am suing him for slander. --v. 2 defame, calumniate, disparage, slur, traduce, malign, smear, vilify, decry; libel: He must be stopped from slandering people and ruining their reputations.
slash v. 1 cut, gash, hack, score, slit, knife, lacerate; wound; scar: The guide slashed away at the undergrowth with his machete. 2 lash, whip, scourge, flog, beat, horsewhip, flail, flagellate, flay, lambaste, thrash, beat: In those days, a convicted felon was beaten and slashed in front of a crowd in the market-place. 3 cut, reduce, decrease, drop, mark down, trim, lower: Prices were slashed to clear out last season's styles. --n. 4 cut, gash, incision, slit, slice, gouge, rent, rip, score, laceration: There is a slash in each sleeve that reveals the colourful fabric underneath. 5 cut, reduction, decrease, mark-down: The department stores continued their price slashes to the end of January.
slaver v. 1 drool, salivate, slobber, drivel, dribble, spit, Dialect slabber: The wolf opened its slavering jaws. --n. 2 drool, saliva, drivel, dribble, spit, spittle, Dialect slabber: The slaver formed on his lips as he raged on. 3 nonsense, drivel, rubbish, twaddle, piffle: The slaver spewed forth by the critics set her teeth on edge.
sleek adj. 1 smooth, slick, velvety, lustrous, shiny, shining, glossy, silky, silken: The seals' sleek fur glistened in the sunlight. 2 graceful, trim, streamlined: For her birthday Edmund gave her a sleek convertible. 3 suave, unctuous, slimy, fawning, oily, specious, hypocritical, Chiefly Brit smarmy: His explanations sounded plausible enough, but we soon found out what a sleek rogue he really was.
sleepy adj. 1 drowsy, somnolent, tired, nodding, dozy, lethargic, torpid, slumberous, sluggish, oscitant; weary, fatigued, exhausted, Colloq dead on one's feet, (knocked) out, beat, US and Canadian pooped: All that exercise has made me sleepy. 2 boring, inactive, dull, quiet, soporific, slow, sluggish: He grew up in a sleepy little village in the Outer Hebrides.
slick adj. 1 smooth, sleek, glossy, silky, silken, shiny, shining, glassy, slippery: His slick hair looked as if it had been greased. 2 smooth, urbane, suave, smooth-spoken, glib, smug, plausible; sycophantic, unctuous, Colloq smarmy: Thomas was a slick operator and managed to worm his way into a position of power. 3 smooth, clever, skilful, adroit, dexterous, professional, ingenious, imaginative, inventive, creative, Colloq neat: The performance was slick and well-rehearsed. 4 superficial, shallow, meretricious, specious, glib: They have made a lot of money publishing slick magazines for the yuppy market. --v. 5 Often, slick down. smooth, plaster down, grease, oil: He likes his hair slicked down to look like Valentino's.
slightly adv. a little, somewhat, to a certain or slight or minor extent or degree or measure, marginally: Yes, I do feel slightly better, thank you. slim adj. 1 See slender, 1, above. 2 See slender, 2, 3, above. --v. 3 reduce, lose or shed weight, diet, Chiefly US slenderize: I really must slim if I am to fit into my summer clothes.
slip v. 1 slide, skid, glide, slither: Waxing the runners helps the sleigh slip along more easily. 2 stumble, lose one's footing or balance, miss one's footing, trip; fall, tumble: Mother slipped on the ice but luckily didn't fall down. 3 Often, slip up. err, blunder, make a mistake, miscalculate, go wrong, botch (up), Slang screw up: He slipped up again by failing to give you your telephone messages. 4 let slip. reveal, divulge, blurt out, leak, let out, disclose, expose, Colloq come out with, blab: He accidentally let slip the news that you were back in town. 5 slip away or by. pass, elapse, vanish, go by: The hours just slipped away when I was with Irena. 6 slip away or off or out. escape, disappear, leave, vanish, steal, go or run away or off or out, break away, get away, give (someone) the slip; sneak away or off or out: After the speech, he slipped away before we could interview him. 7 slip in. enter, get in, sneak in; put in: A field mouse slipped in past the wire netting. I managed to slip in my suggestion before the meeting was adjourned. --n. 8 blunder, error, mistake, fault, oversight, slip of the tongue or pen, inadvertence, indiscretion, impropriety, transgression, peccadillo, faux pas, Colloq slip-up, Chiefly US blooper, Slang Brit boob, bloomer: She made so many slips in the letter that she had to retype it.
slit v. 1 split, cut, slash, gash, knife, slice: The bark of the log is first slit OBopen, then carefully peeled back. --n. 2 split, cut, gash, incision, fissure, groove, slash, cleft, aperture, opening: Off-stage, the rest of the actors were watching the audience through a slit in the curtain.
slogan n. war cry, battle-cry, rallying cry, catchword, watchword; motto: The magazine's slogan was 'If you love words, you'll love Word '.
sloth n. idleness, laziness, indolence, slothfulness, inertia, apathy, indifference, accidie, torpor, faineance, pococurantism, torpidity, sluggishness, languor, languidness, lethargy, phlegm, Rare hebetude: The maharajahs lived a life of sloth and luxury at the expense of their poverty-stricken subjects.
sludge n. muck, mire, ooze, mud, slime, dregs, silt, residue, precipitate, Colloq goo: The mechanic said that there was a lot of sludge in the engine.
slur n. 1 smear, insult, calumny, aspersion, affront, stigma, stain, blot, spot, (black) mark, discredit, insinuation, innuendo, imputation, slander, libel, slight, Colloq put-down: She resents any slur on her husband's character. --v. 2 mumble, misarticulate, garble, stutter, lisp: Some people nowadays slur their speech so badly that one can hardly understand them. 3 slur over. gloss over, pass over, disregard, give short shrift to, ignore: The eulogies at the memorial service slurred over his faults and focused on his accomplishments.
smart adj. 1 intelligent, clever, bright, brilliant, quick-witted, sharp, acute, astute, capable, adept, apt, quick, ingenious: Emily is one of the smartest children in the class. 2 canny, perspicacious, perceptive, percipient, discerning, knowledgeable, au fait, well-educated, well-read, erudite, learned, well-versed, aware, shrewd, streetwise, Slang hip, tuned in, US savvy: Brendan is smart enough to avoid trouble. 3 elegant, chic, fashionable, stylish, modish, la mode, well-groomed, trim, neat, dapper, spruce, soign(e), Colloq snappy, natty: You must admit that both Della and Paul are smart dressers. 4 pert, pointed, saucy, witty, nimble-witted, poignant, trenchant, effective: I wish he would stop making smart remarks when I am trying to explain something. 5 brisk, vigorous, animated, active, energetic, spirited, lively; quick, alert, jaunty, perky, breezy: The enemy launched a smart counter-attack at dawn. He set off down the road at a smart pace. 6 quick, swift, stiff, smarting, stinging, sharp, severe: The mugger gave him a smart blow on the back of the neck. --v. 7 sting, hurt, pinch, pain, ache, tingle, prickle, burn, throb, stab, pierce: The antiseptic may smart a bit when it is put on the cut. The smoky atmosphere made her eyes smart. --n. 8 injury, harm, pain, pang, twinge, affliction, suffering, smarting: For years he silently endured the smart of his colleagues' ridicule.
smirk n. 1 leer, sneer, grin, grimace, simpering smile: Wipe that conceited smirk off your face. --v. 2 sneer, grimace, leer: Instead of saying, 'I told you so', he just stood there smirking.
smoulder v. burn; seethe, simmer, chafe, rage, fume, foam, boil, stew, fester, Colloq get hot under the collar, get (all) steamed up, see red, US do a slow burn, get (all) burnt up: The fire continued to smoulder, then flared up again a week later. He has been smouldering ever since his wife confessed she was going out with another man.
snap v. 1 break (off), separate, crack; cleave, split, fracture, give way, part: The wind snapped off tree branches like matchsticks. The back legs of the chair snapped in two as she sat on it. 2 click; pop; crack: The door snapped shut. 3 Often, snap at. a bite (at), nip, gnash or snatch at: The postman ran down the street, the dog snapping at his heels. b attack, lunge at, lash out (at), snarl at, growl (at), bark (at), be brusque or short or curt (with), Colloq jump down (someone's) throat, fly off the handle (at): Robin is in a bad mood today, snapping at everyone. 4 Usually, snap up or US also off. grab (up), snatch (up), seize, pluck, pounce on or upon, make off with, take (away), capture, catch, get, secure: The people who arrived early at the sale had snapped up all the bargains. 5 shoot, snapshot, photograph, click, catch: He always has his camera with him so that he can snap anything interesting. 6 snap one's fingers at. disdain, scorn, flout, dismiss, contemn, disregard, ignore, defy, mock, deride, thumb one's nose at, Brit cock a snook at: He merely snapped his fingers at the dangers when I mentioned them. 7 snap out of it. recover, come round or around, revive, awaken, wake up, perk up, liven up, cheer up; get a grip or (a) hold on or of oneself, pull oneself together, (re)gain control of oneself: I was feeling very blue yesterday but managed to snap out of it. --n. 8 crack, crackle, pop, click: The lid shut with a snap. 9 spell, period, interval, wave: During that cold snap we thought we were in for a terrible winter. 10 catch, spring catch, (snap-)fastener, fastening, clasp: Do you want snaps or buttons sewn on this shirt? 11 energy, vigour, animation, liveliness, vitality, bounce, alertness, sprightliness, lan, dash, sparkle, verve, Colloq zip, zing, get-up-and-go, pep, pizazz: Granny certainly has a lot of snap left in her. 12 easy job, Slang picnic, US and Canadian breeze: There had been no need for her to worry, for the exam turned out to be a snap. --adj. 13 abrupt, sudden, precipitate, hurried, hasty, incautious, rash, unpremeditated, unplanned, not well-thought-out, quick, instantaneous, instant: This is too important a matter for a snap decision.
snarl v. 1 growl; snap: I admit I found three snarling Dobermans a bit off-putting. The clerk snarled at me when I asked for a form. --n. 2 growl: With a snarl the dog leapt at his throat.
sneaking adj. 1 persistent, lingering, lurking, nagging, worrying, worrisome, niggling, intuitive, deep-rooted, deep-seated, Slang gut: She had a sneaking suspicion that Stephen was a police informer. 2 innate, intuitive, inherent, private, secret, suppressed, hidden, unexpressed, undeclared, unvoiced, unavowed, unconfessed, unrevealed, unadmitted, undivulged, undisclosed, covert: I have a sneaking sympathy with the underdog.
sniff n. 1 whiff, breath, odour, scent: I got a sniff of her perfume as she walked by. 2 hint, spirit, feeling, suggestion: There is the sniff of spring in the air. --v. 3 smell, snuffle, snuff: Why is your dog always sniffing at my shoes? 4 sniff (at). See sneer, 2, above.
snobbery n. snobbism, snobbishness, pretentiousness, pretension, hauteur, haughtiness, superciliousness, condescension, loftiness, contemptuousness, presumptuousness, lordliness, disdainfulness, disdain, pompousness, pomposity, affectation, inflatedness, self-importance, conceit, vainness, vanity, narcissism, self-admiration, self-centredness, egotism, smugness, Colloq uppishness, uppitiness, snootiness, snottiness: It is commonplace to criticize the nouveau riche for their snobbery.
snuggle v. cuddle, snug down, nestle, nuzzle: The puppies snuggled up close to their mother for warmth and protection.
sob v. cry, weep, blubber, shed tears, snivel, whimper, sniff, snuffle, pule, wail, moan, boohoo, mewl, pule, bawl, howl, yowl: The poor, lonely child sobbed quietly.
sociable adj. friendly, affable, approachable, social, gregarious, outgoing, extrovert(ed) or extravert(ed), companionable, accessible, amiable, amicable, genial, congenial, convivial, warm, cordial, neighbourly, hail-fellow-well-met, Colloq chummy, cosy: The people in this area are quite sociable, and we get together often.
soft adj. 1 yielding, cushiony, plushy, spongy, squeezable, compressible, squashy, squashable, flexible, plastic, pliable, pliant, supple, flexile, flexuous, unstarched: This mattress is much too soft for my back. 2 easy, comfortable, undemanding, Colloq cushy: His uncle got him a soft job at the Labour Ministry. 3 gentle, mild, balmy, pleasant, moderate, warm, halcyon, springlike, summery, restful, tranquil, relaxing, lazy: Alexandra was looking forward to a week in the soft Caribbean climate. 4 subdued, toned or turned down, muted, low, quiet, melodious, mellifluous or mellifluent, mellow, gentle, faint, softened, soothing, smooth: Riley thought she might succumb to the influences of the wine and the soft music and lights. 5 easygoing, tolerant, kind, compassionate, gentle, merciful, lenient, indulgent, permissive, liberal, lax, easy, docile, tame, submissive, deferential, benign, tender-hearted, sympathetic, kind-hearted, kind: Some believe that the jailers were too soft with the criminals. His parents were far too soft. 6 Usually, soft in the head. foolish, silly, simple, Colloq chiefly Brit daft, US off: Kevin must have gone a bit soft in the head if he thinks that Clara still loves him. 7 depressed, declining, in decline, in recession, slow, unprofitable, borderline, questionable, weak: Owing to the stormy, cold summer, the resort business has been soft this year. 8 downy, silky, silken, satiny, furry, fluffy, feathery, fleecy, fuzzy, velvety, smooth (as a baby's bottom): The wool from the lambs is much softer. 9 pastel, pale, delicate, fine, subdued, light, matte or matt, quiet, diffuse(d), soothing: He wanted the bedroom painted in soft shades of greenish blue. 10 harmless, non-addictive: Some consider cannabis a soft drug. 11 fuzzy, woolly, blurred, blurry, foggy, diffuse(d): The soft focus photos of the wedding looked very romantic. 12 weak, feeble, frail, effete, delicate, non-physical, non-muscular, puny, flabby, out of training or condition or shape, pampered; namby-pamby, effeminate, unmanly, unmanful, Colloq sissified, sissy: He had been out of the marines for so long they thought he had gone soft. 13 easy, luxurious, pampered, rich, opulent, plush, posh, Colloq ritzy, swank(y): Since selling his business, Aubrey Quinton has been living the soft life on the Costa del Sol.
soil n. earth, loam, dirt, ground, turf, humus; clay: The men who dug the swimming-pool took away the soil from the pit.
sole adj. lone, only, singular, unique, solitary; particular, exclusive, individual, personal: As Susan is the sole surviving heir, she has the right to sell the house if she wishes.
solicit v. 1 entreat, beseech, ask (for), implore, petition, importune, appeal for or to, call on or upon, beg, supplicate, pray, crave: He has solicited my help on more than one occasion. 2 accost, approach, entice, lure, pander to, Slang hustle: You can't go out in that neighbourhood without being solicited.
solid adj. 1 three-dimensional, cubic: The perspective drawing is a representation of a solid object. 2 filled (in or up), packed, jammed, crowded, teeming, congested, crammed, swarming, compressed, concentrated, Colloq chock-a-block, jam-packed, chock-full: By the time I arrived, the gallery was solid with people. 3 compact, firm, hard, stable; unshakeable or unshakable, unshaky, substantial, concrete, sturdy, sound, stout, strong: The vessel floated through the air before coming to rest on solid ground. His theories rest on a solid foundation. 4 consistent, homogeneous, uniform, unalloyed, unmixed, pure, continuous, unbroken, real, authentic, true, genuine, 24-carat, unadulterated, Slang honest-to-God: This mountain seems to be solid iron all the way through. John gave me a solid gold necklace for my birthday. 5 law-abiding, upstanding, upright, decent, stout, substantial, powerful, reliable, regular, steady, steadfast, stalwart, straight, estimable, sure, trusty, trustworthy, true-blue, worthy, dependable, sober: Mr Hart is one of the solid citizens of this town. He has always been a solid defender of the underdog. 6 steady, stable, stalwart, dependable, sturdy, strong, substantial, sound, firm, well-built, well-constructed, well-made, tough, durable, rugged, stout: That chair is not solid enough for you to stand on. 7 cogent, sound, concrete, weighty, proved, provable, valid, reasonable, sensible, rational, sober, well-founded, authoritative, indisputable, incontrovertible, irrefutable, incontestable, good, powerful, potent, forceful, convincing, persuasive: He presents a solid argument for a sales tax. 8 firm, downright, vigorous, telling, effective, forceful, potent, powerful, mighty, dynamic, thorough, through-and-through, intensive: Jan struck a solid blow against the supporters of abortion. 9 See solvent, 1, below. 10 entire, complete, whole, continuous; uninterrupted, undivided, unbroken, unrelieved, blank, windowless: I had to wait at the dentist's for a solid hour. Around the park they erected a solid wall.
solitude n. 1 solitariness, aloneness, isolation, seclusion, privacy: Peter enjoys the solitude of living on an island. 2 loneliness, remoteness; emptiness, wilderness: How long could one person survive in the solitude of interstellar space?
solvent adj. creditworthy, (financially) sound, solid, reliable; debt-free; profitable: The auditors rate the business as solvent.
sometime adj. 1 former, erstwhile, past, recent, one-time, quondam: Crawford was a sometime student of the occult. --adv. 2 at some time or other, someday, one day, any time, on a future occasion, when or if the opportunity arises, soon, by and by, one of these days: Come up and see me sometime. 3 sooner or later, in (due) time, in the fullness of time, in the long run, one fine day, Un bel di, eventually, when all is said and done, before long, before you know it: You can be sure that the tax man will find out about it sometime.
soon adv. 1 before long, presently, ere long; in the near future, any minute (now), before you know it, in good time, in a little while, in a minute or a moment, momentarily, shortly, anon, in a second, Colloq in a jiffy: Soon another year will have passed. The doctor will be with you soon. 2 quickly, speedily, at once, promptly, immediately, directly, without delay, straightway, straight away, right away, forthwith, in short order, on the double, in two shakes (of a lamb's tail), in a wink, tout de suite, without delay, Colloq pronto, US and Canadian lickety-split: If he doesn't come soon, dinner will be spoilt. 3 quickly, speedily, promptly, swiftly: I'll be there as soon as I can. 4 willingly, lief, gladly, happily, readily: I'd just as soon be left alone, if you don't mind. 5 sooner or later. at some time or other, some time, one day, in time, in due course, eventually, ultimately, in the end, when all is said and done, at the end of the day, in the last or final analysis, at bottom: Don't worry, she'll come home sooner or later. Sooner or later they will have to yield.
sophistication n. 1 worldliness, urbanity, culture, refinement, knowledge, knowledgeability, cosmopolitanism, polish, elegance, poise, suavity or suavit, savoir faire, savoir vivre, finesse, discrimination, discernment, awareness, taste, tastefulness, style: They want him on the board of directors of the museum because he lends it sophistication. 2 complexity, intricacy, subtlety, refinement: There is a staggering amount of sophistication built into modern integrated circuits.
sore adj. 1 painful, sensitive, tender, raw, angry, burning, stinging, smarting, hurting; irritated, inflamed, chafed: My finger is still sore round the cut. 2 sensitive, delicate, tender, embarrassing, awkward, ticklish, touchy, thorny, prickly: Failing to complete medical school is a sore point with her. 3 dire, serious, acute, extreme, critical, urgent, pressing, desperate: He is in sore need of some good advice. 4 angry, angered, annoyed, irritated, vexed, irked, upset, Colloq peeved: Don't get sore at me because you got low marks in your exams. 5 painful, troublesome, grievous, aggrieved, distressing, distressful, harrowing, severe, agonizing, bitter, fierce, burdensome, onerous, heavy, oppressive: Melanie's marital troubles proved a sore trial for her friends. 6 sore straits. difficulty, trouble, distress, danger, dangerous or precarious condition: The business is in sore straits, I fear. --n. 7 injury, damage, swelling, rawness, infection, inflammation, bruise, abrasion, cut, laceration, scrape, burn, canker, ulcer: If that sore on your arm doesn't heal, you'd better see a doctor.
sort n. 1 kind, variety, type, class, classification, group, category, brand, make, mark, stamp, description, mould, stripe, ilk, feather, kidney, character, nature; manner, species: A 1928 Alfa-Romeo coup is not exactly the right sort of car for a family. Lewis is a person of a different sort. What sort of person is he? 2 kind, type, manner: This sort of behaviour must stop. 3 species, genus, family, phylum, subgenus, subspecies, race, breed, strain, stock, kind, variety, type: Aberdeen Angus is a better sort of beef for steaks. 4 person, individual, lot; thing: He is not really such a bad sort. 5 of sorts. of a sort, of a mediocre or passable or admissible or not (too) bad or fair or sufficiently good or adequate or undistinguished or indifferent kind or quality or proficiency: Yes, one might say that he is a violinist of sorts. 6 out of sorts. not oneself, not up to snuff, unwell, ailing, indisposed, (slightly) ill, low, Colloq off one's feed, under the weather: He is out of sorts after last night's revelries. 7 sort of. See somewhat, above. --v. 8 assort, classify, file, order, rank, grade, class, categorize, separate, divide, combine, merge, arrange, organize, systemize, systematize, catalogue, group, sort out: Sort these names into alphabetical order. 9 describe, characterize, categorize, cast, throw, combine, mould, type: I did not enjoy being sorted together with thieves and murderers. 10 sort out. a organize, set or put straight, straighten out, resolve, tidy (up), clarify, clear up, solve; decide: Someone will have to sort out how we are to proceed. b choose, select, separate, divide: Sort out all the books that you want to keep from those to be donated to the library.
sound n. 1 tone; noise; din; cacophony; report: This piano has a tinny sound. We could hear the sound of laughter from below. I heard nothing over the sound of the crowd. Sounds of gunfire echoed in the valley. 2 ring, tone, impression, characteristic, quality, effect, aspect, look: I didn't like the sound of that remark. 3 hearing, range, earshot: Anyone within the sound of his voice could tell that he was angry. --v. 4 resound, reverberate, echo, resonate: The noises sound very close. 5 seem, appear, look; strike one, give one the impression or feeling or sense (that); resemble, sound or seem or look like: It sounds as if you don't want to come to my party. That sounds like Russian to me. 6 ring, (be) activate(d), (be) set or touch(ed) off, signal: Anyone walking into the room sounds the alarm. The alarm sounds when the beam is broken. 7 Sometimes, sound out. articulate, pronounce, enunciate, utter; voice, vocalize: I was taught to speak clearly, to sound each consonant and vowel. 8 Sometimes, sound out or off. shout (out), cry out, yell (out): Sound out those numbers loud and clear! 9 sound off. vituperate, complain, bluster, grumble, Slang bitch: Today Mr Morrison was again sounding off about the service in the caf.
sour adj. 1 acid, acidic, tart, vinegary, lemony, acidulous or acidulent, acidulated, acescent, acerbic: This apple has a pleasant, slightly sour taste. Do you like sour dill pickles? 2 turned, bad, (gone) off, fermented, curdled, rancid, spoilt or spoiled: If the food is sour, throw it away. 3 disagreeable, unpleasant, distasteful, bad, nasty, bitter, terrible: The poor service and facilities made the entire holiday a very sour experience. 4 acrimonious, bitter, embittered, unpleasant, churlish, ill-natured, ill-tempered, bad-tempered, crusty, curmudgeonly, crabbed, crabby, grouchy, cross, cranky, testy, petulant, impatient, abrupt, nasty, curt, caustic, brusque, peevish, snappish, edgy, sullen, morose, gloomy, discontented: The waitress's sour expression matched her sour disposition. --v. 5 turn, spoil, curdle, go bad or off, ferment: Milk sours quickly in this climate if you don't refrigerate it. 6 embitter, acerbate, disenchant, exasperate, vex, Colloq peeve: Being forced to practise for hours when a child was what soured my enjoyment of playing the piano.
sow v. seed, disseminate, broadcast, plant: The grand vizier sowed the seeds of dissension amongst the subjects of the caliph.
spank v. slap, smack, put or take over one's knee, thrash, paddle; chastise, punish, castigate; Colloq wallop, tan (someone's) hide, paddywhack, whack, give (someone) a (good) licking or hiding: In those days when you misbehaved you were spanked.
spare adj. 1 extra, surplus, supernumerary, auxiliary, supplementary, additional; odd, leftover; in reserve, in addition: We got a puncture, so Dad stopped and put on the spare wheel. Give them the spare room. Have you a spare cigarette? 2 unoccupied, leftover, leisure, free, surplus, extra; not spoken for: Her demanding job left her very little spare time. 3 thin, skinny, scrawny, cadaverous, gaunt, raw-boned, meagre, gangling, lank(y), wiry, slim, slender; all skin and bones: The spare, ragged figure crouched in the shadows, his hand outstretched in supplication. 4 See sparing, below. 5 meagre, frugal, small, skimpy, modest, scanty: Their meals were spare but wholesome. --v. 6 save, rescue, deliver, redeem: Bill spared me from a fate worse than death. Spare me the embarrassment of having to ask for my money back. 7 pardon, let go, release, have mercy on, let off, free, liberate: At the last moment, the judge spared him. 8 allow, relinquish, let go (of), give, award, bestow, let have, donate, part with, give, yield: She decided she could spare a couple of pounds for the disaster appeal. Buddy, can you spare a dime? 9 avoid, dispense with, manage or do without, give up, forgo, forsake, surrender, sacrifice: We spared a great deal of trouble by settling the dispute. Spare the rod and spoil the child.
sparse adj. 1 thin (on the ground), few (and far between), meagre, scanty, (widely) dispersed or scattered, spread out, spotty, in short supply, scarce: Tourists are sparse in Scotland in January. Sparse blooms appeared on the rose-bushes this year. 2 little, limited, meagre, scant, sparing, inappreciable, not much, insignificant: Sparse use was made of the new tennis court because of the rain.
spate n. flood, inundation, onrush, onset, rush, deluge, outpouring, outflow, outflowing, flow: What did I say to provoke that spate of foul language?
speaker n. orator, lecturer; keynoter; rabble-rouser, demagogue, Colloq tub-thumper, spieler: It was my function to introduce the speaker.
speciality n. 1 expertise, talent, genius, gift, skill, aptitude, trade, craft, accomplishment, ability, strength, forte, strong point, capability, adeptness, art, sphere, field, area, subject, concentration, specialization, mtier, Chiefly US and Canadian specialty, Colloq bag, thing, cup of tea, baby, claim to fame: Dr Mann's speciality is tropical diseases. 2 pice de rsistance, spcialit de la maison, special, Chiefly US and Canadian specialty, US blueplate special: Today's speciality is calves' brains au beurre noir.
specify v. particularize, enumerate, itemize, name, denominate, list, indicate, mention, identify, cite, define, detail, stipulate, spell out, set out or forth, individualize, be specific about, delineate, determine, disambiguate, establish: You must specify the source of each quotation.
speckled adj. spotted, mottled, dotted, sprinkled, flecked, stippled, dapple(d), freckled, brindle(d); discoloured, spattered, bespattered: I can see by looking at it that it's a speckled trout.
spectre n. 1 ghost, phantom, wraith, apparition, vision, spirit, shade, revenant, Doppelgnger, chimera, Colloq spook, bogeyman or bogyman: Each year the spectre appeared to her on Christmas Eve. 2 image, vision, (mental) picture: Again the horrible spectre of war and pestilence arose.
speech n. 1 speaking, talking, articulation, diction, language, expression, enunciation, elocution, speech pattern; communication: His speech is marred by a lisp. Martha studied speech at a well-known drama school. 2 oration, address, lecture, talk, discourse, disquisition, sermon, homily; tirade, harangue, philippic; (sales) pitch, line, song and dance; Colloq spiel, blast: Her speech left her audience awed with her knowledge of the subject. When the householder opens the door, you launch into your speech about the encyclopedia. 3 dialect, idiolect, jargon, parlance, idiom, faon de parler, language, tongue, Colloq lingo: English speech varieties range from Scots to Cockney to Texan to Jamaican.
spell n. 1 period, interval, time, term, season; stint, turn, run, course, shift, tour (of duty), watch, round: We had a spell of bad weather. Each of us had a spell at the tiller during the crossing. --v. 2 relieve, replace, substitute for, take over for or from: After 36 hours of uninterrupted duty, I needed someone to spell me for a while.
spend v. 1 pay out, disburse, expend, lay out, Colloq fork out, dish out, shell out, Brit splash out: That man spends more for a suit than you earn in a year. 2 squander, throw away, fritter away, waste, go through, splurge, lavish, dissipate: He spends money as if it's going out of style. 3 devote, allot, assign, invest, put in, pass: If you don't spend more time with the children they'll forget they have a father.
sphere n. 1 globe, orb, globule, spherule; drop, droplet, bubble: Flotation is provided by thousands of hollow plastic spheres. 2 society, class, level, caste, rank, domain, walk of life, station, stratum, position: They did not belong to the same social sphere. 3 area, field, province, subject, discipline, range, speciality or US specialty, forte, Colloq bailiwick, territory, department, thing, bag: Are Gregorian chants within Stanley's sphere of interest?
spike n. 1 skewer, stake, prong, treenail, nail, peg, picket, pin, pike, spine: To subdue a vampire, drive a wooden spike through its heart. --v. 2 impale, stab, stick, spear, pierce, spit, lance: He was spiked through the thigh by a bayonet. 3 disable, thwart, nullify, disarm, block, frustrate, foil, void, balk, check, cancel, annul: Our plans for the picnic were spiked by the weather. 4 strengthen; drug, poison, Slang slip in a Mickey (Finn): I passed out because my drink was spiked.
spineless adj. 1 Technical invertebrate: There are more species of spineless creatures than those with internal backbones. 2 weak, feeble, flabby, irresolute, weak-willed, indecisive, ineffectual, ineffective, impotent, powerless: After her reign, any king would appear spineless. 3 cowardly, dastardly, pusillanimous, timorous, lily-livered, white-livered, craven, fearful, timid, spiritless, squeamish, Colloq yellow, chicken-hearted, chicken, yellow-bellied, wimpish: She said you were spineless because you refused to go into the lions' cage.
spirited adj. lively, sprightly, energetic, vigorous, animated, sparkling, dynamic, buoyant, effervescent, vivacious, ardent, mettlesome: The horse I chose was a bit too spirited. The barrister presented a spirited defence for his client. The 1970s saw spirited revivals of art nouveau and art deco styles.
spiteful adj. rancorous, bitter, acrimonious, malevolent, malicious, venomous, hateful, invidious, hostile, antagonistic, unfriendly, unforgiving, retaliative or retaliatory, punitive, retributive or retributory: Cutting off Colin's allowance because he forgot your birthday was a spiteful thing to do.
splice v. 1 join, unite, marry, bind, conjoin; knit, entwine, intertwine, braid, plait, twist, interlace: After the two rope ends are spliced together, they should be seized with marline. --n. 2 joining, union, splicing, joint, connection or Brit connexion, tie, bond, binding, fastening, linking, linkage: A proper splice will probably be stronger than the single cable. splinter n. 1 sliver, fragment, piece; scrap, shard, shred, chip: A splinter of glass is stuck in my finger. --v. 2 shatter, break, fragment, split, disintegrate, smash to smithereens: The lamp hit the floor and splintered into a million pieces.
spoilsport n. killjoy, damper, dog in the manger, Colloq wet blanket, US party pooper: Some spoilsport tipped off Jane about her surprise birthday party.
sporadic adj. occasional, intermittent, random, irregular, uneven, erratic, chance, unexpected; spasmodic(al), fitful, periodic(al): There has been sporadic unrest in that area of the city.
sporty adj. informal, casual; stylish, chic, smart, trendy, fashionable, modish, la mode, up to date, showy, rakish, Colloq swank(y), loud, Slang classy, swell, flashy, snazzy, sharp, US and Canadian spiffy: He came to dinner wearing sporty clothes. Yes, I suppose you might call Fred a sporty dresser.
spotty adj. 1 spotted, dotted, speckled, freckled, flecked, blotched, blotchy, stained, marked, pied, piebald, brindle(d), skewbald, mottled, motley, dapple(d), macular, foxed; soiled, dirty; Brit splodgy, splodged or US also splotchy, splotched: Pages of some old books are spotty with brown stains. 2 pimply, pimpled, blotched, blotchy, acned, pock-marked, pocky, bad, Scots plouky or plooky: Ian used to have a spotty complexion, but it's clear now. 3 patchy, irregular, uneven, erratic, sporadic, capricious, fitful: Radio reception in our area is spotty during electrical storms.
spray n. flower or floral arrangement, nosegay, posy, bouquet, sprig, branch, bough: The scores of tiny roses were interspersed with sprays of baby's-breath.
spring v. 1 leap, bound, jump, hop, vault, dart, fly, bounce: He sprang to his feet when she came into the room. When Tom came to the stream, he sprang over it. The leprechaun sprang out from behind a tree. 2 arise, appear, grow, come up, rise, come into being or existence, be born, emerge, sprout, shoot up, burst forth: Where the dragon's teeth were sown, an entire army sprang up. 3 Often, spring up or from. originate, begin, start, evolve; proceed from, stem from, descend from, derive from, come from, develop from: He learned how the practice of scratching the head in perplexity had sprung up. I wondered where the term horse latitudes sprang from. 4 start or begin or experience or cause to occur or appear or happen suddenly or unexpectedly, broach, pop, introduce or divulge or reveal or disclose suddenly or unexpectedly: The canoe sprang a leak and started to sink. He likes to spring trick questions at candidates in an interview. 5 spring for. pay for, treat (someone) to, assume the expense(s) of: If you go to a place I choose, I'll spring for dinner. --n. 6 leap, bound, jump, hop, vault, bounce, skip: In one spring the cat cleared the garden wall and was off. 7 bounciness, bounce, resiliency, resilience, springiness, buoyancy, elasticity, sprightliness, airiness, flexibility: Despite her age, there's still a lot of spring in her step. 8 source, fount, fountain-head, well-spring, well, origin, beginning, root: From what secret spring does his understanding arise? 9 springtime, Eastertide, Maytime: At 35, James is still in the spring of life. --adj. 10 vernal: We exulted in the spring sunshine.
spur n. 1 goad, prod, urging, impulse, incitement, instigation, prompting, pressure, stimulus, stimulation, incentive, provocation, inducement, encouragement, motive, motivation: The company paid the workers a bonus for each piece they completed as a spur to productivity. 2 projection, prong, spike, spine, gaff, barb, quill, tine, barbel, barbule, process: The hook has a spur that prevents the fish from disengaging. 3 on the spur of the moment. impetuously, impulsively, unthinkingly, unpremeditatedly, impromptu, on the spot; rashly, thoughtlessly, recklessly, hastily, brashly, incautiously, unexpectedly, suddenly: On the spur of the moment, we decided to fly to Cap d'Antibes for the weekend. --v. 4 goad, prod, urge, egg on, impel, incite, prompt, press, push, pressure or Brit pressurize, stimulate, drive, provoke, induce, encourage, motivate, excite, animate: The sales force are spurred on by the huge bonuses the company offers.
spy n. 1 double agent, foreign agent, secret(-service) agent, intelligence agent, undercover agent, mole, fifth-columnist, CIA man or woman or agent, MI5 or MI6 man or woman or agent; informer, informant, Colloq mole, Slang stool-pigeon, stoolie, fink, ratfink: In those days, everyone was a spy and you could trust no one. --v. 2 Usually, spy on or upon. follow, shadow, trail, watch, observe, reconnoitre, keep under surveillance, US surveil, Colloq tail, check out, case: Why should anyone from a foreign government be spying on my mother? 3 espy, glimpse, spot, catch sight or a glimpse of, descry, note, notice, see, discern: I spied him getting into a yellow convertible.
squeamish adj. 1 dainty, delicate, prudish, punctilious, demanding, critical, exacting, difficult, fussy, scrupulous, fastidious, meticulous, painstaking, finicky or finical, Colloq persnickety or pernickety, fuddy-duddy: The museum directors were too squeamish to put on an exhibition of nudes. 2 nauseous, qualmish, easily disgusted or revolted or nauseated: Sam was too squeamish to watch open-heart surgery on the TV.
squirm v. wriggle, writhe, twist, flounder, shift, fidget, be (very) uncomfortable, agonize, Colloq sweat: The boy squirmed under the stern gaze of the headmaster. stab v. 1 stick, puncture, prick, lance, jab, pierce, run through, impale, gore, transfix, knife, bayonet, skewer, spike, spit, spear, pin; plunge, poke, thrust: In the melee, George was stabbed in the arm. It is said that she stabbed a fork into his hand. 2 stab in the back. harm, betray, sell out, double-cross, give the Judas kiss, play false with: As soon as he had left, they stabbed him in the back by phoning the authorities. --n. 3 puncture, jab, thrust, (stab-)wound: The coroner's office reported that the body had six stabs in the abdomen. 4 attempt, try, essay; guess, conjecture: Even if you are wrong, you lose nothing by making a stab at the right answer. 5 pang, twinge, pain, ache, hurt, stitch: Doctor, I get a terrible stab of pain in my side when I turn that way. 6 stab in the back. treachery, betrayal, double-cross, Judas kiss, kiss of death, duplicity: Informing on someone to the tax inspector is a really nasty stab in the back.
stadium n. arena, ground, amphitheatre, hippodrome, coliseum or colosseum, circus: The new football stadium can accommodate 60,000 spectators.
stagnant adj. motionless, standing, still, quiet, sluggish, unmoving, immobile, flat; stale, foul, putrid, putrescent, putrefied, polluted, dirty, contaminated, filthy: The malarial mosquitoes thrive in pools of stagnant water in the tropical swamps.
stake n. 1 stick, post, spike, picket, paling, pale, pole, pike, stave; palisade, pole, upright, pillar, column: They tied the goat to a stake and hid, waiting for the tiger to catch the scent. 2 pull up stakes. move (house), resettle, move on, migrate, emigrate, leave, depart: It was time to pull up stakes and find a new camp-site. --v. 3 tether, tie (up), secure, fasten, picket, lash, leash, hitch, chain: The ponies were staked out in the pasture. 4 Usually, stake out. (a fence (in or off), confine, pen, enclose, close in or off, hem in, shut in, impound, enclose, cage, wall in: We hired a man to stake out a large enough area to keep the horses. b mark off or out, define, delimit, outline, demarcate, delineate, circumscribe: The pioneers had already staked out the land they planned to cultivate.
stalk v. follow, dog, haunt, shadow, trail, track (down), hunt (down), pursue, hound, chase, Colloq tail: The leopard stalked its prey in complete silence.
stalwart adj. 1 robust, stout, strong, mighty, powerful, rugged, staunch, hardy, sturdy, vigorous, lusty, indomitable, solid, able-bodied, brawny, sinewy, muscular, fit, healthy, hale, (hale and) hearty, Colloq husky, hefty, beefy: We shall need a dozen stalwart men to carry out the raid. 2 redoubtable, intrepid, undaunted, resolute, firm, determined, unbending, steadfast, tenacious, unswerving, unwavering, unfaltering, unflinching, uncompromising, unyielding, persevering, persistent, unflagging, relentless, tireless, untiring, indefatigable: Although they lost, their lawyers put up a stalwart defence. 3 brave, courageous, daring, intrepid, valiant, heroic, manly, manful, fearless, indomitable, stout-hearted, bold, audacious, game, red-blooded, plucky, mettlesome, lion-hearted, spirited: These stalwart knights met at dawn on the battlefield. --n. 4 supporter, upholder, sustainer, partisan, loyalist, (party) faithful, trouper, hero, heroine: And most of all I want to thank those stalwarts who have supported me throughout this victorious campaign.
stampede n. 1 rout, flight, scattering, panic, rush, dash: When the store opened its doors for its annual sale, we were nearly trampled in the stampede. --v. 2 panic, frighten, rush, scatter, rout: Millions of buffalo were killed by stampeding them off cliffs. 3 rush, run, race, charge, take to one's heels, flee, take flight: At the cry of 'Fire!', the audience stampeded for the exits.
standard n. 1 criterion, measure, benchmark, model, pattern, archetype, touchstone, yardstick, gauge, guide, guideline, paradigm, paragon, exemplar, example, sample, type, ideal, beau idal, rule, canon, law, requirement, precept, principle: The metric system has become the standard in many countries. People resent having imposed on them the standards of another culture. 2 mean, average, norm, par, level, rating: With many luxuries now necessities, the standard of living has improved enormously. The course was for students of intermediate standard. 3 flag, banner, ensign, emblem, pennant, burgee, insigne (singular of insignia), guidon, gonfalon or gonfanon, labarum: The black knight bore a curiously coloured standard into battle. 4 pole, post, stanchion, lamppost, column, pillar, support, pedestal, pier, footing, (upright) bar or rod or timber: The car went out of control and knocked down two lighting standards. --adj. 5 accepted, approved, definitive, defined, authoritative, official, required, regulative, regulatory, textbook: Must we follow standard procedure? The tests were conducted according to the standard methods. 6 recognized, prevailing, prevalent, usual, customary, habitual, orthodox, set, established, regular, familiar, ordinary, traditional, classic, stock, typical, normal, staple, conventional, universal: People in the south usually regard themselves as speakers of standard English.
standing adj. 1 established, set, standard, conventional, customary, usual, normal, regular, fixed, permanent, continued, continuing, regular: The club has standing rules concerning use of the card-room. 2 stagnant, motionless, unmoving, stationary, still, static: Insects bred in the standing pools of rainwater. 3 continuous, fixed, ongoing, perpetual, unbroken: Michael placed a standing order for six cases of Beaujolais Nouveau every November. 4 erect, upright, on one's feet, vertical, unseated: Please remain standing till the signal is given to be seated. --n. 5 status, rank, station, position, place, grade, order, level, stratum: Considering her standing in the party, Mrs Miller ought to win the nomination easily. 6 eminence, prominence, repute, reputation: Foster is a surgeon of considerable standing. 7 Usually, long standing. (considerable) age or longevity or experience or seniority or duration: Ivan is an art expert of long standing.
staple adj. 1 basic, elementary, essential, necessary, requisite, required, vital, indispensable, critical, fundamental, primary, principal, main, chief: These people cannot afford even staple commodities like flour and salt. 2 standard, usual, habitual, ordinary, customary, prevailing, normal, conventional, universal: The staple fare on television seems to consist of old and new sitcoms. --n. 3 Often, staples. necessities, essentials, basics, fundamentals: Supermarkets disperse low-cost staples such as bread, tea, and milk to force shoppers to pass luxury items. Marital and financial problems are the staples of soap operas.
start v. 1 Often, start off or up. begin, commence, get (something) going, get off the ground, originate, initiate, open, set in motion, activate, embark on; set in motion, turn or switch on, crank up, Colloq kick off: They started operations at once. I can't start my car. 2 Often, start off or up or in. arise, come up, come to be or into being, emerge, crop up, develop, begin, commence, get under way, originate: How did this situation start? 3 Often, start off or up or in. go, leave, depart, get going, move (off or out or on), get under way, set off or out or forth, Colloq hit the road, get the show on the road: You start and I'll follow shortly. 4 Often, start in. begin, commence, get or start the ball rolling, get things under way, be on one's way, get going: When I went in I found that she had started without me. 5 jump, flinch, blench, quail, shy, recoil, wince, shrink, draw back: He started when he saw her suddenly behind him in the mirror. 6 cause to spring or leap or dart or jump or bound: Any abrupt movement will start the plovers from cover. 7 establish, found, begin, set up, initiate, institute, create, father, give birth to, beget: It was her ideas that started the current trend in mystery novels. 8 bulge, protrude, stick out; Colloq US bug out: Warping caused these boards to start from the floor. When he saw what was in his swimming-pool, his eyes started from their sockets. --n. 9 beginning, opening, move: This is not very good, but it's a start. 10 beginning, commencement, opening, outset, onset, inception, start-up: The start of the race is set for ten o'clock. 11 beginning(s), inception, birth, initiation, onset, rise, genesis, creation, emergence, origin: The start of the blues can be traced to New Orleans. 12 opportunity, chance, beginning; help, assistance, aid, backing, financing, sponsorship, encouragement, Colloq break: Her father-in-law gave her the start she needed in business. 13 head start, advantage, edge, lead, Colloq (the) jump, US and New Zealand drop (on someone): Having the inside track gave her a start on the competition. If he has a ten-minute start, we'll never catch him. 14 inauguration, opening, beginning, initiation, Colloq kick-off: When is the start of the salmon fishing season this year? 15 beginning(s), founding, foundation, establishment, inception, birth, origin: This company had its start in 1781.
state n. 1 condition(s), circumstance(s), situation, state of affairs, status, shape, position: He was concerned about the state of the company's finances. 2 structure, form, constitution, shape, phase, stage: One does not see iodine in its gaseous state outside the laboratory. 3 grandeur, pomp, style, splendour, magnificence, glory, brilliance: The prince was met at the airport and escorted in state to the palace. 4 nation, country, land, body politic: No longer a colony, it became an independent state in 1952. --adj. 5 governmental, government, national, federal: The State schools in the town had a good reputation. 6 ceremonial, formal, dignified, stately, solemn, official; royal, regal, imperial, majestic: We attended a state dinner at the White House. The Queen travelled in the state coach from Buckingham Palace to Westminster. --v. 7 aver, assert, asseverate, declare, affirm, express, report, articulate, voice, specify, delineate, claim, maintain, allege, submit, confirm; say, testify, hold, have: He has often stated his firm belief in democracy. He stated firmly that he was not in the house on the night of the murder.
station n. 1 place, position, spot, post, site, location: The sentry is not to leave his station till relieved. 2 position, place, status, rank, caste, standing, class, level: As a doctor, he attained a station in life far above that of his father. 3 railway station, train station, passenger station, bus station, US and Canadian depot: Let's meet in the waiting-room in the station. --v. 4 position, place, spot, post, site, locate, assign, appoint, garrison, install or instal, Colloq billet: He was stationed in three different places in four years.
status n. 1 eminence, prominence, pre-eminence, standing, stature, importance, significance, repute, reputation, rank, station: Few could approach Keith's status as a pathologist. 2 See standing, 5, above.
steadfast adj. resolute, determined, persevering, resolved, single-minded, steady, unflinching, unfaltering, unwavering, unswerving, indefatigable, dependable, immovable, stable, firm, fixed, constant, persistent, unflagging, tireless, enduring, dedicated, deep-rooted, faithful, true, loyal, staunch: For years Janet has been steadfast in supporting the cause. Stephen was a steadfast friend and will never be forgotten.
stealth n. furtiveness, secrecy, clandestineness, surreptitiousness, sneakiness, slyness, underhandedness: What the thieves lacked in stealth they compensated for in knowledge of art.
steely adj. 1 greyish, grey: His steely blue eyes pierced deep into her soul. 2 iron, tough, indurate, adamant, adamantine, hard, strong, rugged, unyielding, flinty, sturdy: She was a woman of steely determination.
stellar adj. 1 astral, star, sidereal: The sidereal year is based on stellar calculations. 2 chief, starring, principal, leading, main, headlining: For years Lee has been a stellar performer on the golf circuit.
stenographer n. secretary, amanuensis, stenotypist, tachygrapher, phonographer: The court stenographer read back part of the testimony.
sterilize v. 1 purify, disinfect, cleanse, clean, fumigate, depurate, Technical autoclave: Sterilize the instruments before using them. 2 castrate (males), emasculate (males), geld (horses), spay (female animals), alter (animals), neuter (animals), caponize (male fowl), eunuchize (males), Technical ovariectomize (females), vasectomize (males), Colloq fix (animals), cut (male animals), Slang tie (someone's) tubes: Steers - that is, sterilized bulls - yield tenderer meat.
stick v. 1 pierce, thrust, stab, transfix, pin, spike, impale, spear, spit, run through, poke, gore, jab, prick, puncture, punch, penetrate, drill, bore, riddle, perforate: He stuck the wild boar with his spear. 2 put, drop, place, deposit, Colloq shove, plonk, plunk, plop: Stick another ice cube in my drink, would you? 3 put, poke, push, thrust, prod, dig; insert: She stuck her head out of the window to get a better look. Stop sticking your finger in my ribs! 4 attach, fasten, affix, fix, nail, pin, tack; glue, cement, paste, gum, weld, solder, bind, tie, tape, wire; bond, melt, fuse, unite, join: What shall we used to stick the poster to the wall? How can I stick the pieces of the vase together again? 5 Often, stick together. cohere, adhere, stay or remain or cleave or cling together: I cannot make these parts stick together. 6 hold, last, endure, go through, be upheld, be or remain effective, remain attached: The prosecutor was unable to make a charge of murder stick. 7 linger, dwell, remain (fixed), continue, stay; be or become lodged or stopped or fixed or fast or immovable or stationary, be or become entangled or enmired or bogged down: Something sticks in my mind about your leaving next week. We were stuck in the Sunday traffic for hours. The wheel is stuck in the sand. 8 burden, weigh down, encumber, saddle with, charge, impose on, force on: We stuck Tony with the nasty job of changing the tyre. 9 baffle, puzzle, bewilder, perplex, confuse, stump, stop, nonplus: I was totally stuck for a solution. 10 stand, abide, tolerate, endure, bear: I can't stick people watching me while I am painting. 11 stick around or about. wait, tarry, linger, stay, stand by, remain, Colloq hang around or about or on: Can you stick around for a few minutes after the meeting? 12 stick at. stop at, hesitate at, pause at, scruple at, be deterred or put off by, take exception to, shrink from or at, balk at: Barnes sticks at nothing to get his way. 13 stick by. support, be loyal or faithful to, stand by: Arnold will stick by you, come what may. 14 stick it (out). persevere, persist, stand fast, bear it, be resolute, soldier on, hold (one's) ground, grin and bear it, see it through, weather it, Colloq US tough it out: It was a very hard job, but I stuck it out to the very end. 15 stick out or up. protrude, jut (out), extend, project, poke (out); bulge, obtrude, stand out, overhang, beetle: Stick out your tongue. What is sticking out of your ear? Balconies stick out from all sides of the building. 16 stick together. a unite, unify, join (forces), consolidate, merge, confederate, amalgamate, cooperate, work together: The family always sticks together at times of crisis. b See 5, above. 17 stick up. a rob, mug, Colloq hold up, US heist: They stuck up a bank courier this morning, in broad daylight! b put up, post, affix, display: We went round town sticking up posters for our candidate. 18 stick up for. rally to the support of, support, stand by or up for, defend, speak for or in behalf of, take up the cudgels for; put one's money where one's mouth is, have the courage of one's convictions: A person must stick up for what he thinks is right. 19 stick with. persevere, persist, stay or remain or continue with, not change one's mind about: Stick with me, kid, and you'll wear diamonds. I'll stick with the smoked eel as a starter.
stiff adj. 1 firm, rigid, inelastic, unbending, inflexible, hard, unbendable, tough, solid, solidified, stiffened, unyielding, brittle: The table napkins were so stiff with starch that I almost cracked one. 2 severe, harsh, punitive, hurtful, punishing, abusive, torturous, distressing, afflictive, painful, overwhelming, unbearable, tormenting, merciless, excruciating, cruel, drastic, US cruel and unusual: The government here has stiff penalties for drug traffickers. 3 strong, potent, powerful, overpowering, alcoholic: After that kind of an ordeal, you could use a stiff drink, I'm sure. 4 vigorous, energetic, staunch, dogged, tenacious, resolute, resolved, determined, stubborn, obstinate, unyielding, indomitable, relentless: They met with stiff opposition in trying to capture the fort. 5 strong, steady, powerful, fresh, brisk, spanking, gusty, forceful, howling: We had to reduce sail because of a stiff westerly wind. 6 excessive, exorbitant, high, steep, expensive, dear: They are asking a pretty stiff price these days for a bottle of good vintage port. 7 cool, haughty, rigid, wooden, stuffy, aloof, tense, intense, unrelaxed, forced, pompous, stilted, mannered, ceremonious, austere, formal, chilly, cold, unfriendly, standoffish, reserved, snobbish, Colloq snooty, Slang uptight: Vince is warm and friendly, but his wife is as stiff as a poker. 8 stilted, unrelaxed, wooden, forced, artificial, laboured, pedantic, turgid, formal, prim, Colloq stuffy: I have always found her writing to be rather stiff. 9 difficult, hard, steep, uphill, laborious, arduous, tiring, fatiguing, exhausting, harrowing, toilsome, rigorous, challenging, Colloq rough, tough: It is quite a stiff climb to the top of the pyramid of Cheops. That was a stiff homework assignment. 10 solid, semi-solid, firm, hard, thick, dense, compact: If you add a bit more water the next time, the jelly won't get quite so stiff. --n. 11 corpse, body, cadaver: Barry had to go down to the morgue to identify some stiff they hauled out of the river. 12 skinflint, miser, Colloq cheapskate, Slang piker, US and Canadian tightwad: A stiff is a customer who fails to leave a tip.
stigmatize v. brand, mark, scar, blemish, besmirch, sully, disparage, depreciate, denounce, condemn, calumniate, defame, pillory, slander: His foul treachery stigmatized his entire family. still adj. 1 quiet, serene, placid, calm, tranquil, motionless, unmoving, peaceful, pacific, at rest, quiescent, even, flat, smooth, inert, stationary, undisturbed, unruffled: In the moonlight, the lake lay still and dark. 2 silent, quiet, noiseless, soundless; hushed, restful, Literary stilly: Be still or they'll hear you! In the still night I heard the distant sound of an owl. --n. 3 stillness, hush, quiet, silence, tranquillity, noiselessness, peacefulness, calm: In the still of the evening came the call of the nightingale. --adv. 4 even now, to or till or until this or that time, (up) till or until now, yet: Henry came for dinner five years ago, and he's here still. Do you still smoke? 5 even, in addition: Hugh weighed twenty stone when you last saw him, but he's heavier still today. 6 notwithstanding, yet, even then: Are you still going to Sue's party, despite what she said?. 7 motionless(ly), quiet(ly), silent(ly), stock-still: Lie still while I put on this bandage. --conj. 8 however, but, notwithstanding, nevertheless, even so, in any event, in any case: She said she'd be here; still, you never know, she may come later. --v. 9 calm, allay, assuage, alleviate, relieve, silence, lull, quiet(en), pacify, soothe, mollify, appease, subdue, suppress: A few kind words and she had stilled my fears.
stimulating adj. exciting, inspirational, inspiring, arousing, stirring, animating, exhilarating, provocative, thought-provoking: I cannot recall having spent a more stimulating evening in the theatre.
stint n. 1 share, quota, allotment, bit, assignment, stretch, shift, term, time, job, chore, task, routine, turn, tour, duty, responsibility, obligation, charge: She had done her stint of washing-up and refused to do any more. 2 control, curb, limit, limitation, restriction, check, restraint, constraint, condition, qualification, reservation: The committee is free to exercise without stint its power to raise membership fees. --v. 3 control, curb, limit, restrict: Don't stint yourself, lunch is on the firm. 4 skimp, scrimp, be stingy or cheap or penurious or parsimonious or sparing or frugal, hold back (on), withhold, economize, pinch (pennies), cut corners, Colloq Brit be mingy: They certainly didn't stint on the food and drink at Andrea's party.
stir v. 1 Often, stir up. agitate, shake (up), mix (up), scramble, amalgamate, mingle, commingle, intermingle, merge, blend, fold (in), churn (up), beat, whip (up): Stir all the ingredients together. 2 move, rise, arise, get up, bestir (oneself), be up and about, Colloq get a move on, get moving, get a wiggle on, shake a leg, look or step lively, look alive, stir one's stumps: It is about time you were up and stirring. 3 disturb, trouble, affect, upset, stimulate, activate: The play stirred the conscience of the king. Mention 'diet' to Roberta and you'll stir up a wasp's nest. 4 Often, stir up. motivate, encourage, stimulate, energize, galvanize, electrify, animate, excite, inspire, provoke, move, rouse, arouse, get, prompt, urge, incite, spur, prod, induce, persuade, convince: What will it take to stir the council to take action? The usual rabble-rousers were there, stirring up the crowd. 5 Often, stir up. awaken, rouse, (cause to) recall or call to mind, revive, resuscitate: Those photographs stir up so many old memories! --n. 6 bustle, activity, movement, stirring, action, commotion, flurry, confusion, tumult, ado, to-do, fuss, disturbance, excitement, hubbub, Colloq Brit kerfuffle: There was a stir at the door, which was flung wide to allow Kitty to sweep in. The news of her marriage caused quite a stir. 7 prison, jail or Brit also gaol, jail-house, clink, penitentiary, lock-up, Military Brit glasshouse, US brig, Slang chiefly Brit quod, US big house, pen, slammer, can, calaboose: He claims he's in stir for something he didn't do.
stodgy adj. stuffy, dull, heavy, ponderous, elephantine, boring, tedious, humdrum, tiresome, turgid, uninteresting, unimaginative, dry-as-dust, jejune, vapid, dreary, flat, colourless, bland, Colloq ho-hum, blah, deadly: The speaker was boring and gave the stodgiest talk I have ever heard.
stolid adj. impassive, dull, doltish, obtuse, thick, dense, bovine, wooden, slow, lumpish, unemotional, clod-like, phlegmatic, lethargic, apathetic, indifferent, uninterested: He was a stolid character, very different from his dynamic younger brother.
stop v. 1 discontinue, halt, terminate, cease, break off, end, put an end or a stop to, bring to a stop or a halt or an end or a close, give up, quit, leave off, finish, conclude, desist (from), refrain (from), abandon; draw to a close, be over, come to a stop or a halt or an end or a close; Colloq cut (out), lay off, Brit pack in: Stop shouting, I'm not deaf. The car stopped suddenly. Will the fighting ever stop? 2 bring to a stop or a halt or a standstill, check, cut off; arrest, suppress, restrain, thwart; block, bar, obstruct, dam, keep or hold back, prevent, hinder; slow, impede, stem, stanch or staunch: The main problem was how to stop drug trafficking. Can we stop the river from flooding? This tourniquet will stop the bleeding. 3 Often, stop up. obstruct, block (up), jam (up), plug (up), clog (up), choke (up), stuff (up), fill (up), close (up or off): The drain was all stopped up with paper. 4 peter out, be over, end: He gave me an injection and the pain finally stopped. 5 pause, break, take a break, interrupt, tarry; sojourn, rest, stay, put up, lodge, visit, stop off or in or over; pull over, pull up: I'd like to stop for a cup of coffee. I stopped at The Bell Inn on my way here. We stopped short at the sign. --n. 6 halt, end, cessation, termination, ban, prohibition; close, standstill, conclusion: The new law put a stop to door-to-door selling. We must bring that practice to a stop. 7 stay, sojourn, visit, break, rest, stopover, US layover: We thoroughly enjoyed our stop in Brighton. 8 stopping-place, station, terminal, stage, terminus, US and Canadian depot: There is a bus stop in the next street. 9 blockage, blocking, stopping (up), stoppage, closing up, obstruction, block: A stop in the water supply was soon cleared up.
storehouse n. warehouse, depository or depositary, repository, storeroom, bank, store, (In Asia) godown; arsenal, magazine, armoury: The company maintains storehouses in a dozen countries to better supply their customers.
story n. 1 narrative, tale, recounting, anecdote, yarn; account, recital, chronicle, record, history; legend, myth, fairy tale or story, romance, gest or geste, fable, fabliau; epic, saga, Edda; joke, Colloq gag; mystery, detective story, whodunit, thriller; horror story; allegory, parable; piece, article: In olden days, the historians were the story tellers. George really knows how to tell a story. Have any of your stories been published? 2 contention, testimony, assertion, version, statement, representation, allegation: That's his story and he's sticking to it. 3 fib, confabulation, (white or black) lie, alibi, excuse, untruth, falsehood; tall tale, fishing or fish story: He told us some story about having sailed round the world single-handed in a dinghy. Did you believe her story about being of royal blood? 4 article, item, report, dispatch, news, tidings, release, information, copy, feature; scoop, exclusive: A story about China appears on page two. 5 story-line, plot, scenario, (plot) outline, summary, book: The story needs some revision before the dialogue can be rewritten. 6 biography, curriculum vitae, life (story); facts, experiences, adventures, fortunes: His story is going to be made into a film.
straight adj. 1 direct, unbending, undeviating, uncurved, regular, linear: The tracks are straight for as far as the eye can see. 2 erect, vertical, upright, upstanding, perpendicular; plumb: Stop slouching and stand up straight. He stood straight as a ramrod. 3 even, square, true, right, flat, smooth, horizontal, level: Are you sure that the billiard table is straight? 4 honest, frank, straightforward, direct, forthright, legitimate, (fair and) square, fair, equitable, just, above-board, upright, respectable, decent, trustworthy, honourable, dependable, reliable, Colloq upfront: Sternway seems to be perfectly straight in his business dealings. 5 unequivocal, unambiguous, straightforward, candid, plain, simple, explicit, blunt, unembellished, unelaborated, unqualified, outright, accurate: The straight facts are given in this article. The police cannot get a straight story out of him as to his whereabouts last night. 6 direct, point-blank, straightforward, straight from the shoulder, candid, outright, plain, frank, no-nonsense: Do you mind answering a straight question? 7 shipshape, orderly, neat, tidy, in order, arranged, organized, sorted out, spruce, straightened out: I wish Leonard would put his room straight before the guests arrive. 8 sober, staid, sedate, serious, unsmiling, unemotional, impassive, emotionless, taciturn, composed, mask-like: It was impossible to keep a straight face during the school play. 9 undiluted, neat, unmixed, pure, unadulterated, uncut, unmodified, unaltered, unalloyed: He likes his whisky straight. 10 even, square, settled, straightened out, agreed: The account will be straight when Dick makes the last payment. 11 heterosexual, normal, Slang hetero: Till Evelyn came out of the closet, I thought he was straight. --adv. 12 directly, right, undeviatingly, unswervingly; as the crow flies, in a beeline: I should have known she would go straight to the police. 13 (straight) ahead: Go straight for a mile and you'll see it on the right. 14 Sometimes, straight out. directly, unequivocally, unambiguously, forthrightly, straightforwardly, point-blank, candidly, plainly, simply, in plain or simple English, explicitly, outright, honestly, accurately: Just give me the story straight, without beating about the bush. 15 Often, straight away or off. immediately, at once, without delay, instantly, summarily, directly, right (away or off), right off the bat, promptly, Colloq pdq (= 'pretty damned quick'): She went back to work straight after having the baby. I told him straight off to leave town. 16 straight up. without ice: I like my gin straight up.
strained adj. laboured, forced, artificial, stiff, tense, awkward, uneasy, uncomfortable, difficult, tension-ridden, self-conscious, unnatural, insincere, put-on: His already strained relations with his wife scarcely improved when he met Lisa.
strange adj. 1 odd, peculiar, bizarre, weird, curious, uncommon, unusual, rare, singular, exceptional, eccentric, weird, funny, quaint, fantastic, out of the ordinary, extraordinary, out-of-the-way, queer, outlandish, unheard-of, grotesque, abnormal, remarkable, surprising, inexplicable, unaccountable, uncanny, Colloq offbeat, far-out, Slang kinky, Brit rum, US kooky: I had a strange dream last night. 2 unfamiliar, unknown, unaccustomed: The children were warned not to get into strange cars. She was overwhelmed by the strange culture of her husband's country.
strategy n. plan, tactic(s), design, policy, procedure, scheme, blueprint, Colloq game or master plan, scenario: The enemy's strategy calls for quick air strikes by low-flying bombers. stratum n. 1 layer, level, stratification, table, vein, seam; plane: These coal strata have been mined for hundreds of years. 2 level, caste, class, rank, station, standing, status, bracket, group, estate: She married someone from a higher stratum of society.
streamer n. pennant, banner, pennon, flag, bannerette or banneret, banderole or banderol or bannerol, gonfalon or gonfanon, jack, burgee: A long streamer fluttered from the mast.
strengthen v. 1 reinforce, renew, bolster, fortify, support, confirm, corroborate, substantiate, buttress, step up, boost: A thousand troops were sent to strengthen the garrison at Fort Old. 2 encourage, hearten, invigorate, fortify, rejuvenate, nourish, energize, vitalize, toughen, brace (up), steel, innervate, stiffen: Whatever she said seems to have strengthened his determination to succeed.
strew v. scatter, bestrew, sprinkle, disperse, spread, toss, distribute; litter: Rubbish was strewn all over the floor.
strident adj. shrill, raucous, harsh, loud, grating, stridulous, stridulant, scraping, scratching, scratchy, grinding, hoarse, rough, guttural, husky, gravelly, rasping, jarring, discordant, unharmonious, unmelodious, unmusical, cacophonous, croaking, creaking: Her strident voice could be heard all over the building.
string n. 1 line, cord, thread, twine, fibre, rope, cable, ligament, strand, filament: To fly a kite one needs the right weight of string. 2 leash, lead, leader: Why does he let her drag him around on the end of a string? 3 line, row, series, sequence, succession, chain, procession, stream, train, file, Chiefly Brit queue: A string of coincidences led to their meeting again after twenty years. 4 necklace, chain, loop, strand, dog-collar, choker, chaplet, wreath, rivire, Archaic carcanet: In her hair was a string of pearls. 5 pull strings or wires. use or exert influence, Colloq throw one's weight around: He had to pull strings to get his son a job on the paper. 6 pull the strings. be in control, control, run, operate, dominate, be in command, be in the driver's seat, hold the reins, manipulate: She is the one who pulls the strings when it comes to new investments. 7 strings. conditions, stipulations, provisos, qualifications, requirements, prerequisites, terms, obligations, limitations, provisions, musts, Colloq catches: I might have known that there would be strings attached to their offer of a free holiday in Corfu. --v. 8 thread, join: The children were busy stringing beads to make necklaces. 9 Often, string together or up. loop, festoon, link, drape, suspend, sling, hang, array, concatenate, chain together: At holiday time, coloured lights are strung round the town square. 10 string along. a follow, go along (with), agree, concur, collaborate: I said I would string along with the plan for the time being. b keep waiting or dangling, keep on a string, keep on tenterhooks, Colloq play fast and loose with (someone): She's just stringing you along till her boyfriend comes back. c fool, deceive, bluff, dupe, cheat, trick, hoax, Colloq take someone for a ride, put one or something over on (someone): They strung Harold along for months before they made off with his life savings. 11 string out. a stretch, reach, extend: The line of refugees strung out as far as one could see. b delay, postpone, drag out, protract, spin out: He strung out the repayment for as long as possible. 12 string up. hang, lynch: He knew that if the jury didn't convict him the townspeople would string him up.
stripe n. 1 band, bar, striation, strip, streak, line, stroke, slash, length: Each railway car has a bright orange stripe along each side. 2 style, kind, sort, class, type, complexion, character, nature, description, persuasion, kidney, feather: These new students are of a completely different stripe.
stroke n. 1 blow, rap, tap, thump, knock, smack, whack, swipe, slam, strike, Colloq wallop: One stroke of the hammer and the nail went in. 2 action, motion, go, move, movement, feat, achievement: She won the leading role and defeated her shyness at one stroke. 3 flourish, movement, gesture; mark, dash, Colloq splash: With a stroke of the pen the man's fate was sealed. 4 beat, throb, pulse, pulsation, thump: His heart was beating at exactly 72 strokes a minute. 5 attack, seizure, fit, apoplexy, apoplectic fit, spasm, paralytic attack or fit; Technical embolism, thrombosis, cerebrovascular accident, aneurysm: Gerry has been incapacitated since he had a stroke. 6 pat, touch, caress: A few strokes of her fingers on my brow and the headache was gone. 7 achievement, accomplishment, feat, act, action, work; example; touch: Your idea of having a jazz concert to raise money is a stroke of genius. 8 bit, jot or tittle, scrap, iota, touch, stitch, hint, suggestion: You haven't done a stroke of work all morning. 9 occurrence, happening, matter: It was just a stroke of luck that I came along when I did. --v. 10 caress, pet, pat, fondle; massage, rub, soothe: His heart beat faster when she stroked his hand lightly with her fingertips.
stronghold n. fortress, bulwark, bastion, fastness, fortification, citadel: The eastern district was one of the last strongholds of the Labour Party.
strut v. swagger, parade, promenade, peacock, prance: She goes strutting about the office as if she were the boss.
studied adj. premeditated, deliberate, calculated, planned, intentional, wilful, well-thought-out, conscious, contrived, feigned, forced, laboured: He treated even the greatest crisis with a studied air of insouciance.
stuffy adj. 1 close, airless, unventilated, oppressive, stifling, suffocating, stale, musty, fusty, mouldy, mildewy, muggy, fetid or foetid, frowzy or frouzy or frowsy, Brit frowsty: It was stuffy in the ancient tomb. 2 pompous, pedantic, self-important, self-centred, stodgy, old-fogyish or old-fogeyish, old-fashioned, strait-laced, staid, conventional, prim (and proper), priggish, niminy-piminy, stilted, stiff, rigid, Colloq fuddy-duddy, uptight: What a bore to be trapped for an entire evening with those stuffy old codgers!
stun n. 1 daze, numb, benumb, knock out: I was stunned by an unexpected blow to the solar plexus. 2 astonish, daze, paralyse, stagger, stupefy, overcome, overwhelm, astound, jar, shock, jolt, strike dumb, amaze, confound, bewilder, take (someone's) breath away, Colloq shake up, bowl over, discombobulate, flabbergast: The children were stunned to hear that their mother had been arrested.
stunted adj. dwarfed, shrunken, undersized, small, tiny, diminutive, little, wee: We saw a bonsai - a stunted Japanese potted tree that was hundreds of years old.
sturdy adj. 1 strong, solid, stout, rugged, tough, well-built, substantial; strapping, muscular, powerful, brawny, burly, robust, well-muscled, athletic, hardy, Colloq husky, hefty: This ladder should be sturdy enough to hold you. James got that sturdy build from exercise. 2 stalwart, staunch, steadfast, resolute, firm, vigorous, determined, uncompromising, unyielding, unwavering, unswerving, unfaltering, enduring, indomitable: One must admire her sturdy independence in the face of all that criticism.
styptic adj. astringent: The styptic effect of alum stops bleeding.
subdued adj. 1 quiet, mellow(ed), toned down, moderate(d), tempered, hushed, muted, low-key, unenthusiastic, repressed, restrained, peaceful, tranquil, placid, calm(ed), temperate, reserved: There was a little subdued criticism at first, but the bill was passed. 2 chastened, sober, sobered, solemn, saddened, dejected, sad, down in the mouth, crestfallen, downcast, grave, serious: He looked subdued when he emerged from the headmaster's office.
subjugate v. dominate, enslave, enthral, crush, humble, subject, oppress, suppress, put down, tyrannize, subdue, reduce, quell, overcome, overpower, make subservient or submissive, humble, humiliate: Few peoples have been subjugated so ignominiously as the American Indians.
submerge v. 1 plunge, submerse, immerse, inundate, dip, wash, soak, drench, saturate, wet, douse, Colloq dunk: To cleanse, submerge the garment in a basin of warm water for ten minutes. 2 dive, plunge, go down, descend, sink, sound, plummet: The order to submerge was given as soon as the planes were spotted. 3 flood, immerse, inundate, swamp, bury, engulf, overwhelm, deluge, drown; conceal, hide, camouflage, obscure, cloak, veil, shroud: He was quickly submerged under an enormous pile of correspondence.
subordinate adj. 1 Often, subordinate to. minor; inferior (to), lower (than), lesser (than), secondary (to), second (to), junior (to), subsidiary (to); next to, below, beneath, under: He had to accept a subordinate position in the new company. His new job is subordinate to that of purchasing director. --n. 2 assistant, aide, junior, subaltern, staff member; underling, hireling, inferior, lackey, servant, slave, vassal; Colloq US staffer: She is a subordinate to the editor-in-chief. --v. 3 make (something) secondary: Too many subordinate community interest to personal greed.
subsequently adv. later (on), afterwards or US also afterward: Subsequently, the law was changed to protect witnesses.
subsidy n. funding, financing, subsidizing, sponsoring, sponsorship, assistance, aid, contribution, support, grant, subvention, maintenance, underwriting, capitalization: Farmers are hoping for increased subsidies.
substantially adv. in substance, essentially, at bottom, fundamentally, basically, in essence, intrinsically, in reality, at heart, sincerely, truly, actually, in truth, veritably, indeed, in fact, as a matter of fact; largely, to a large extent, in large measure, materially, practically, in the main, for the most part, mostly, virtually, to all intents and purposes; Archaic verily: The article was substantially sound. Do you agree substantially with the ruling of the court?
substratum n. substrate, foundation, underlayer, basis, fundament, base, substructure, groundwork: The agreement rests on a substratum of mutual trust and respect.
subtract v. 1 deduct, take away, take off, take (something) from: First calculate the discount, then subtract it from the price. 2 Sometimes, subtract from. detract (from), diminish, take away (from): Nothing could subtract from the exhilaration of that moment.
subway n. 1 Brit underground (railway), tube: She takes the subway to work. 2 US tunnel, underpass: Use the subway to cross the road in safety.
succession n. 1 passing (on), handing down or on, transmittal, transmission, transfer, transferral, shift, conveyance, conveyancing: According to her will, the succession of the property is via her first-born. 2 sequence, progression, order, series, turn, course, flow, chain, train, procession: The succession of events was as he described. 3 accession, assumption, attainment, elevation, promotion; inheritance: What was the year of Charles II's succession to the Spanish throne? 4 lineage, descent, birthright, dynasty, ancestry, descendants, bloodline: The 18th century began with the War of the Spanish Succession. 5 in succession. one after or behind the other, at intervals, successively, consecutively, in a row, running, without interruption, uninterruptedly, in order, in line: They published several historical novels in quick succession.
succumb v. yield, give up, give way, surrender, accede, submit, capitulate: I finally succumbed and agreed to their request for help.
sue v. 1 proceed or move or act (against), take (legal) action or bring suit or prefer charges (against); summon(s), charge, accuse: He threatened to sue. They are suing him for the injuries they sustained. 2 petition, beg, plead, entreat, pray, request, solicit, apply, beseech, implore, supplicate: After five years of constant warfare, the country is suing for peace.
sufficient adj. adequate, enough: Have we sufficient food to last through the winter?
suggest v. 1 propose, advance, recommend, urge, advocate, support, offer, proffer, put or set forward, present, mention, introduce: He suggested going out to a pub for dinner. Can you suggest an alternative? 2 call to mind, bring up, hint (at), imply, insinuate, intimate, make one think, lead one to believe, indicate: His silence suggested that this was not the right time to pursue the matter.
suit v. 1 adapt, accommodate, fit, adjust, tailor, make appropriate or suitable: It will require some reorganization to suit the office space to our needs. 2 please, satisfy, fill (someone's) needs, gratify, be acceptable or suitable or convenient to or for, befit; conform to: Choose whichever room suits you. The schedule does not suit my personal plans at all. --n. 3 jacket and trousers or skirt, outfit, uniform, ensemble, costume, habit; garb, clothing, clothes, livery: He showed up wearing a new silk suit. 4 lawsuit, action, case, proceeding, process, cause, trial; litigation: I do not want to enter into a suit over the damage to my car. 5 petition, plea, request, entreaty, prayer, solicitation, application, appeal, supplication; courtship: The king rejected all suits for his daughter's hand in marriage.
suitor n. admirer, beau, wooer; boyfriend, paramour, lover, inamorato, cicisbeo, escort, Archaic swain: Madelaine has more suitors than I can count.
sultry adj. 1 hot, humid, sticky, stuffy, stifling, oppressive, close, muggy, steamy, steaming, moist, damp, sweltering, suffocating: I was happy to be languishing again in the sultry warmth of St Lucia. 2 lusty, lustful, passionate, erotic, seductive, voluptuous, provocative, sensual, Colloq sexy, hot: She continued her sultry, slow, sinuous dance.
summit n. peak, top, apex, acme, pinnacle, zenith, crown; culmination, climax: The winds at the summit of Annapurna reached hurricane force. There was no doubt that I had reached the summit of my achievements.
sundries n.pl. knick-knacks, trinkets, small items, notions, miscellanea, miscellany, kickshaws, Brummagem, frippery, bric--brac, odds and ends: We might find a button for your shirt in a shop that sells sundries.
sunny adj. 1 sunlit, sunshiny, brilliant, bright, radiant, fair, fine, cloudless, clear, unclouded: The enchanting scenery and warm sunny climate makes it a perfect place for holidays. 2 cheerful, cheery, happy, joyous, joyful, light-hearted, smiling, beaming, buoyant, blithe, gay, mirthful, jolly, bubbly, ebullient, genial, warm, friendly, outgoing: Being with someone who has a sunny disposition was a pleasant change.
superficial adj. 1 surface, external, exterior, shallow, skin-deep, slight, outside: I suffered a superficial wound to the forehead. 2 surface, slight, external, apparent, skin-deep, outward, cursory, insignificant, passing, unimportant, trivial, empty, insubstantial; paying lip-service, for appearances' sake, cosmetic: She bears a superficial resemblance to your sister. His interest in your welfare is entirely superficial. 3 cursory, slapdash, quick, hurried, hasty, perfunctory, nominal, meaningless, passing: The machinery is subjected to a superficial inspection before shipping.
superhuman adj. 1 heroic, Herculean, godlike, legendary, valiant, courageous, brave, daring, dangerous, death-defying, extraordinary, miraculous, phenomenal, incredible, fabulous, fantastic, unbelievable, amazing: His superhuman feats would never be duplicated. --n. 2 superman, hero, superhero, bermensch, Hercules: They still believe that one day a superhuman will come along to lead them.
superlative adj. unsurpassed, paramount, supreme, consummate, superior, best, choicest, finest, matchless, peerless, unequalled, unrivalled, singular, unique, incomparable, excellent, superb, sterling, dazzling, first-rate, exceptional, extraordinary, marvellous, spectacular, capital, Colloq tiptop, super, smashing, great, ace, terrific, fantastic, Slang crack: Max turned in a superlative performance in the tournament.
supervisor n. overseer, foreman, manager, controller, superintendent, superior, governor, director, boss, chief, head, administrator: As supervisor, you are responsible for the work done in your department.
supple adj. 1 flexible, flexile, pliant, bendable, elastic, resilient, pliable, tractile, fictile: He made a rug-beater out of some supple lengths of bamboo. 2 willowy, lithe, limber, nimble, pliant, lissom or lissome, graceful, athletic: She has the supple body of a dancer. 3 tractable, compliant, yielding, accommodating, obliging, complaisant, acquiescent, submissive, unresistant, unresisting, servile, obsequious, ingratiating, fawning, toadying: With supple words the miserable sycophant wormed his way into father's confidence.
supplication n. 1 entreaty, petition, prayer, appeal, pleading, plea, suit, solicitation, obsecration, obtestation, impetration: Heeding the pitiful supplications of the beggars, they gave them some money. 2 supplicating, begging, pleading, soliciting, petitioning, entreating, beseeching: All his supplication could not wring a farthing from the old skinflint.
supportive adj. helpful, sustaining, supporting, encouraging, sympathetic, understanding, reassuring: Among our many friends, Cleo was the most supportive during the recent trouble.
supposing conj. if, even if, in the event that, despite the fact that, although, though: Supposing he says no, what will you do?
supremacist n. supremist, bigot, racist, racialist, dogmatist, zealot, fanatic: Supremacists' philosophies are based on hatred, not love.
sure adj. 1 certain, assured, convinced, persuaded, positive, definite, unwavering, unswerving, unflinching, steadfast, steady, unshakeable or unshakable, confident, satisfied, undeviating, unfaltering: How can you be so sure in your opinion that Jack did it? I'm sure I've met you before. 2 established, firm, solid, trusty, stable, steadfast, secure, safe, trustworthy, reliable: I never travel without my sure companions, courage and caution. 3 accurate, reliable, dependable, tried and true, unfailing, infallible, foolproof, effective, Colloq sure-fire: A high temperature is a sure sign of illness. 4 certain, inevitable, indubitable, unavoidable, ineluctable, inescapable, guaranteed: He who enters the Devil's Cave meets sure death.
surfeited adj. gorged, overfed, satiated, sated, stuffed, glutted, jaded: He passed the sleeping surfeited diners and stole into the library unseen.
surpass v. exceed, excel, go or pass beyond, outdo, beat, worst, better, best, outstrip, outdistance, outperform, outclass, outshine, eclipse, overshadow, top, cap, transcend, prevail over, leave behind: He easily surpassed the statesmen of his time.
surprise v. 1 shock, astound, astonish, amaze, disconcert, nonplus, dumbfound or dumfound, stagger, take aback, strike, hit, Colloq floor, bowl over, flabbergast, rock or set (someone) back on his or her or chiefly Brit their heels, Brit knock (someone) for six, US knock (someone) for a loop: What surprised me was her coolness in the face of danger. 2 take or catch unawares, catch red-handed or in the act or in flagrante delicto, catch napping or off guard, discover: When Samuel Johnson's wife found him with a maid, she said, 'Dr Johnson! I am surprised!', to which he replied, 'No, madam: you are amazed. I am surprised.' --n. 3 shock, astonishment, amazement, stupefaction, wonder, incredulity: Imagine my surprise to learn that I was being arrested. 4 blow, jolt, shocker, bolt from or US also out of the blue, bombshell, eye-opener: It came as a surprise to me that my sister was pregnant.
surrounding adj. nearby, neighbouring, local, adjoining, neighbourhood, adjacent, bordering, abutting, circumambient, circumjacent: The surrounding countryside was bursting into bloom.
susceptible adj. 1 Often, susceptible of or to. open (to), prone (to), subject (to), disposed (to), predisposed (to), receptive (to), affected by, responsive (to): Brass is susceptible of a high shine. Are you still susceptible to her blandishments? 2 impressionable, influenceable, vulnerable, reachable, accessible, credulous, suggestible, gullible, nave: Susceptible youngsters need protection from commercial exploitation.
suspension n. 1 debarring, disbarment, exclusion, elimination, rejection, expulsion, ejection, eviction, deprivation, denial: The suspension of privileges cannot last for more than a fortnight. 2 intermission, moratorium, deferment, hold-up, delay, delaying, interruption, postponement, postponing, discontinuing, discontinuation, stay: Luckily, the suspension of hostilities lasted till the summer.
sustained adj. continued, continuous, continual, prolonged, unremitting, steady, ceaseless, unceasing, incessant, interminable; uniform, even, level, unchanged, unchanging: The neighbours keep up that sustained caterwauling every night. The audience was thrilled by her sustained top C.
swamp n. 1 bog, fen, marsh, quagmire, morass, moor, Chiefly literary slough, Scots and No. Eng. dialect moss, So. US everglade: The draining of swamps destroys the breeding places of mosquitoes. --v. 2 overwhelm, overcome, flood, inundate, submerge, immerse, deluge, overload, overtax, overburden, Colloq snow under: I'm so swamped with work I'm sleeping at the office. 3 scuttle, sink, founder: A huge wave swamped the boat and she sank quickly.
swashbuckling adj. adventurous, daring, daredevil, swaggering, roisterous, bold, dashing, flamboyant: Those old swashbuckling films with Errol Flynn, Richard Green, and Douglas Fairbanks, formed a genre all their own.
swear v. 1 depose, aver, asseverate, declare, insist, assert, solemnly affirm or state, testify, promise, take an oath, undertake, vow, avow, vouchsafe, warrant, pledge, give one's word, agree: He swore he had not done any such thing. 2 curse, blaspheme, imprecate, use profanity, utter profanities, execrate, Colloq cuss: Priscilla stopped her ears at the men's swearing. 3 swear by. trust (in), believe in, rely on, have confidence in, count on: The colonel swears by the same old fountain-pen he has used for years and will use no other. 4 swear off. forswear, renounce, abjure, go off, forgo, shun, avoid, give up, eschew, forsake, throw over: Brian tells me he's sworn off alcohol for a while.
sweet adj. 1 sugary, honey-like, honeyed, sweetened: Sweet breakfast cereals are bad for your teeth. 2 fragrant, perfumed, scented, aromatic, ambrosial, sweet-smelling, sweet-scented, balmy, redolent: The night air was sweet with jasmine. 3 harmonious, melodious, sweet-sounding, euphonious, dulcet, musical, tuneful, euphonic, mellifluous, mellow, lyric, silvery, bell-like, golden: I could hear McCormick's sweet voice singing 'Danny Boy'. 4 gentle, amiable, agreeable, genial, warm, friendly, kind, nice, unassuming, easygoing; attractive, appealing, charming, winning, pleasant, pleasing, lovely; cute, pretty: Jane normally has such a sweet disposition. Old Mrs Hughes was always sweet to me when I was little. Amy looks so sweet in her new dress. What a sweet little kitten! 5 dear, beloved, precious, prized, treasured, wonderful, marvellous, splendid, Colloq great: How sweet life can be! 6 considerate, attentive, solicitous, thoughtful, sympathetic, compassionate, kind, kind-hearted, generous, gracious, accommodating: How sweet it was of you to bring flowers! 7 cloying, sentimental, syrupy, saccharine, treacly, precious, honeyed, sickening, Colloq gushing, gushy, sloppy, soppy, maudlin, sticky, Brit twee, Colloq icky: Claire is so sweet that she really overdoes it sometimes. 8 sweet on. fond of, taken with, keen on, devoted to, enamoured of, infatuated with, (head over heels) in love with, Colloq wild or mad or crazy about, nuts about or over, Slang gone on, stuck on, batty about: We were teasing Rick about being sweet on Anne. --n. 9 Often, sweets. bon-bon, chocolate, confection, sweetmeat, Old-fashioned comfit, US candy: Harry always brings a box of sweets for my mother when he comes to see me. 10 dessert, Brit pudding, afters: For a sweet we can offer you a choice between chocolate gateau and gooseberry pie.
swelling n. enlargement, distension, tumescence, protuberance, bump, prominence, bulge, lump, excrescence, protrusion, tumour, node, nodule: It is a good idea to have any unexplained swelling examined by the doctor.
swiftly adv. fast, quickly, speedily, rapidly, expeditiously; briskly, hurriedly, hastily, suddenly, abruptly, in a flash, in a trice, in the wink of an eye, before you can say 'Jack Robinson', before you can say 'knife', like a shot, in an instant, in (less than) no time, precipitately, unexpectedly, Colloq like greased lightning, US lickety-split, in a jiffy, Slang pronto, like a bat out of hell: The assembly is done much more swiftly by machine. Swiftly, I ducked into a doorway to avoid being seen.
swindler n. cheat, confidence man or woman, hoaxer, mountebank, charlatan, knave, scoundrel, sharper, fraud, trickster, thimblerigger, villain, Technical defalcator, Colloq flimflam man, Slang con man or woman, US bunco-artist, four-flusher: Swindlers tricked them out of all their cash and traveller's cheques.
swipe v. 1 Usually, swipe at. swing at, strike at, hit at, lash out at: He swiped away at the golf ball but kept missing it. 2 steal, filch, pilfer, purloin, Colloq pinch, lift, snitch, Chiefly Brit nick, whip, snaffle: They caught Freddie swiping a bag of mints at Woolworth's. --n. 3 swing, strike, clip: Ronald took a swipe at the ball with his racket.
swivel v. 1 pivot, turn, rotate, spin, revolve, pirouette, move freely: This joint allows the arm to swivel in all directions. --n. 2 pivot, elbow-joint, gimbal, ball-and-socket joint: The stern-chaser is fitted with a swivel, allowing it to be fired at any angle.
symbol n. representation, figure, metaphor, allegory, insigne (singular; plural is insignia), token, sign, emblem, badge, image, logotype, mark, trade mark, colophon, brand, code, abbreviation, phonogram, initialism, cryptogram, acronym, monogram, password, shibboleth, watchword, code word; arms, bearing, armorial bearing, crest, escutcheon, coat of arms, banner, flag, pennant, standard, Colloq logo: This jewel is a mere symbol of my devotion and love for you.
symmetry n. balance, proportion, evenness, order, orderliness, regularity, uniformity, congruity, congruousness, correspondence, agreement, harmony, consistency, equality: With the crudest of tools, the pyramid builders achieved incredible symmetry.
sympathy n. 1 compassion, commiseration, pity, concern, tenderness, empathy, understanding, solicitousness, warmth, tender-heartedness, warm-heartedness, Archaic ruth: We feel great sympathy for any child who loses a pet. 2 agreement, harmony, compatibility, rapport, concord, accord, fellow-feeling, congeniality, affinity, closeness, unity, communion, fellowship, camaraderie: It is amazing that there can be so much sympathy between two such different people.
synonymous adj. Often, synonymous with or to. equal (to), equivalent (to), tantamount (to), identified (with), corresponding (to or with); transposable (with), exchangeable (with), identical (to or with), interchangeable (with), the same (as): A word is almost never truly synonymous with another in all respects. Even terms like 'salt' and 'sodium chloride' are not synonymous.
system n. 1 organized whole, organization, set, group, combination; structure, arrangement, pattern, set-up: Some believe that the universe is a vast ordered system, others that it is chaos in which only man sees order. It took years to establish the banking system in this country. 2 scheme, method, approach, modus operandi, way, procedure, methodology, technique, plan, process, practice, routine: There is a proper system for doing the job and you should keep to it.
tableau n. scene, sight, spectacle, picture, image; composition, arrangement, grouping, effect: The children raptly listening to their father telling a story - what a charming tableau!
tacit adj. unspoken, undeclared, unsaid, unstated, unvoiced, unuttered, silent, understood, unexpressed, implied, implicit: The sisters have a tacit agreement not to poach each other's boyfriends. He gave me a look of tacit gratitude.
tacky adj. sticky, gluey, gummy, adhesive, ropy, viscous, viscid, Colloq gooey: The varnish is still tacky and must dry before sanding.
tactic n. 1 move, manoeuvre, ploy, caper, plan, strategy, stratagem, device, ruse, plot, scheme, design: Inviting her husband along was a tactic merely to avert suspicion. 2 tactics. manoeuvres, strategy, plans, campaign, generalship, military science, military operation(s), orchestration, engineering, masterminding: Entirely different tactics must be employed in jungle fighting.
tag n. 1 label, name or price tag, mark, marker, tab, ticket, sticker, stub, docket: The tag was clearly marked with a bar-code. 2 name, epithet, label, designation, title, appellation, nickname, Slang handle, moniker: Called 'Eddie the dip', he got his tag 'the dip' because he's a pickpocket. --v. 3 label, mark, ticket, identify, earmark: Please tag all these cartons so we'll know what's in them without opening them. 4 label, name, call, dub, nickname, style, entitle, christen, baptize: I have already said that Eddie was tagged 'the dip' because he was a pickpocket. 5 tag along. follow, trail (along) after, tail, shadow, attend, accompany, drag along with or after: Does your little brother have to tag along wherever we go?
taint n. 1 stain, blot, blemish, slur, tinge, tincture, (black or bad) mark, stigma, imperfection, flaw, scar, defect; discredit, dishonour: His writing suffers from the taint of pedantry. --v. 2 sully, tarnish, stain, stigmatize, smear, harm, hurt, damage, debase, vitiate, blacken, foul, contaminate, pollute, dirty, muddy, smirch, besmirch, blemish, soil, corrupt, spoil, defile, ruin, destroy: It takes very little to taint one's reputation in a small village.
take v. 1 grip, seize, grasp, clasp, get, get or take hold of, grab, snatch, clutch, catch, capture, obtain, lay hold of, lay (one's) hands on, procure, acquire, gain (possession of), take possession of, secure, win, carry off, abduct, Colloq nab: The police took him into custody. He takes what he can get. When it comes to ineptitude, Sue certainly takes the prize. 2 pick, select, choose, opt for, settle or decide or fasten on or upon: When you get to the fork, take the road to the left. 3 appropriate, arrogate, extract, carry off or away, steal, purloin, pilfer, filch, palm, rob, shoplift, pocket, remove, walk off or away with, run or make off or away with; embezzle, misappropriate, peculate; plagiarize, pirate; Colloq lift, swipe, snitch, Chiefly Brit pinch, nick, Slang knock off, hook, rip off, liberate, US boost, crook: They took what didn't belong to them. 4 reserve, book, engage; hire, rent, lease: He took a room in a small hotel, where he began to write detective fiction. 5 acquire, get, adopt; assume, derive, obtain, draw, receive, inherit: He has taken his bad manners from you. The film takes its title from the book. 6 accept, receive, bear, withstand, stand, endure, weather, tolerate, abide, brave, go through, undergo, suffer, submit to, swallow, Colloq put up with, brook, stomach, Brit stick: She took the news about Leon's relapse quite well. I have taken quite enough from you already. 7 assume, bear, undertake, adopt, arrogate; acknowledge, accept: Kevin took full responsibility for the mistake. 8 believe, think, judge, deem, hold, feel; take for, assess (as), consider (as), regard (as), view (as), accept (for): I take people to be honest till proven otherwise. She took him for a fool when they first met. 9 carry, convey, bear, transport, bring, deliver, ferry; haul, cart: Will this train take me to Aylesbury? They took the bicycle to Old Lyme in a van. 10 take up, study, be involved or occupied in or with, apply oneself to, learn; read, Colloq tackle: I cannot believe that Doreen is taking home economics. He took a course in car maintenance. 11 prove or be effective or efficacious or operative or functional, take effect, take hold, operate, function, work, perform, Colloq do the trick: If the transplant fails to take, the doctors will have to operate again. 12 exact, extract, get: She took revenge by denying him certain privileges. 13 swallow, eat, consume, ingest, devour, gulp down, gobble up or down, wolf, bolt; drink, imbibe, quaff; inhale: Rudolf takes pills of every conceivable colour. The doctor said I could take a wee nip now and then. Sonya stepped out to take a breath of fresh air. 14 subtract, deduct, remove, take away, take from, take off: Take three from five. Five, take away two, leaves three. It's cheaper when you've taken off the discount. 15 end, terminate, annihilate, wipe out; kill: The assault on Leningrad took tens of thousands of lives. The Lord giveth and the Lord taketh away. 16 require, demand, need, necessitate, call for: Remember, it takes two to tango. It took him two years to complete the fresco. It takes six to sail his yawl. 17 hold, contain, accommodate, accept, fit in: This storage bin cannot take anything else, it's completely full. 18 convey, lead, conduct; escort, convoy, guide, accompany: This road takes you directly to the yacht club. He asked to be taken to the manager's office. 19 understand, gather, interpret, perceive, apprehend, deduce, conclude, infer, judge, deem, assume, suppose, imagine, see: I take it from your expression that you've had bad news. 20 charm, captivate, capture, attract, lure, allure: There was something about him that took her fancy. 21 use, employ, make use of, establish, put in(to) place, adopt, put into effect, effect, apply; resort to, have recourse to, turn to: The police have taken measures to ensure that it doesn't happen again. 22 clear, get or go over or past or round or through: Browning's Delight took the last jump easily. He must have taken that corner at 90! 23 experience, entertain, feel: She seemed to take an instant dislike to me. 24 express, voice, raise, put forth: I hope you will not take objection or exception to what I am about to tell you. 25 cause or make or induce or drive or persuade (someone) to go or be: What takes you to M laga in August? 26 act, assume, play, perform: I'm taking the part of the wicked witch in the local pantomime. 27 bilk, cheat, swindle, defraud, Colloq con, Brit fiddle: When he examined his wallet he realized he'd been taken. 28 take aback. astound, astonish, surprise, startle, shock: She was really taken aback at the news. 29 take after. a resemble, look like, be the spitting image or the spit and image of, favour, remind one of, Colloq be a chip off the old block: He takes after his grandfather. b Sometimes, take off after. chase, follow, run after, pursue: When the man stole the newspaper and ran, the shopkeeper took after him at a gallop. 30 take back. retract, withdraw, recant, disavow, repudiate: He now wants to take back what he said about you. 31 take down. a note, make a note or memo or memorandum of, write down, record, put or set down, put in writing, document, transcribe, chronicle: Please take down what I am about to tell you. b debase, deflate, lower, diminish, belittle, depreciate, deprecate, humble, humiliate, shame, disparage, degrade, disgrace: She certainly took that pompous ass down a peg or two. 32 take in. a accommodate, receive, let in, quarter, board, lodge: When her children grew up and left home, she decided to take in lodgers. b deceive, fool, trick, impose upon, overcharge, cheat, mulct, defraud, cozen, bilk, dupe, gull, hoodwink, swindle, Colloq bamboozle, con, pull the wool over (someone's) eyes, Slang Brit do: He was really taken in by that time-share deal. c include, subsume, embrace, comprise, cover, encompass, contain: Our sales figures take in all of North America, not just Canada. 33 take it. a withstand or tolerate or survive punishment or abuse, survive: The Marines are extremely tough and can take it. b See 20, above. 34 take off, remove, doff, strip or peel off, discard, divest (oneself) of: Take off your hat in the house. b satirize, lampoon, caricature, mock, parody, travesty, burlesque, mimic, imitate, Colloq spoof, Brit send up: It is not always easy to take off members of the Cabinet. c depart, leave, go (away), decamp; fly off, become airborne, lift off, blast off; Colloq skedaddle, make (oneself) scarce, Slang hit the road, scram, beat it, split: You'd better take off before they find you here. The plane is due to take off at 18:35. 35 take on, hire, engage, employ, enrol, enlist, retain: We are so busy that we have taken on ten new people. b challenge, rival, face, contend against, oppose, match or pit (oneself) against, vie with, fight: Are you in any condition to take on the champion? c assume, accept, undertake, tackle: You might be taking on more than you bargained for. 36 take out. entertain, escort, invite out; court, woo: He took her out to dinner at a Chinese restaurant. 37 take over. assume or take or usurp or gain control or possession or command of: A huge conglomerate is trying to take over our company. 38 take to. a like, find pleasant or pleasing, feel affection or liking or affinity for, find suitable: We took to each other the very first time we met. He took to computers as a duck takes to water. b leave or depart or take off for, run for, head for, flee to, make for: When the attack came, the villagers took to the hills. 39 take up. a pick up, accept, agree to, acquiesce to, accede to: She took up his offer, and they've been married for forty years. b assume, resume, carry on, continue, go on with, follow on with, pick up: After a pause, he took up the thread of the story once more. c espouse, embrace, become interested or involved in, support, sponsor, advocate: She took up the cause of women's rights at her age? d occupy, cover, use (up), fill (up): Bernard's exercise equipment now takes up half the living-room. e deal with, treat, consider, bring up, raise: Next week our panellists will take up the question, 'Who benefits from education?' --n. 40 revenue, takings, yield, return, receipts, proceeds, gain, profit(s); gate, box office: How much was the take from the first day?
taking adj. attractive, alluring, engaging, captivating, winning, winsome, charming, entrancing, enchanting, bewitching, fetching, fascinating, delightful, irresistible, compelling, intriguing, prepossessing: Cassie's taking ways won her many friends. tale n. 1 story, narrative, report, account, record, chronicle, history, narration, recital, anecdote: We were brought up on tales of the supernatural. Her tale of what happened does not agree with the facts. 2 falsehood, lie, fiction, fib, fabrication, untruth, falsification, exaggeration, Colloq tall tale or story, (cock-and-bull) story, US fish story: He told some tale about having been captured by urban guerrillas. 3 rumour, gossip, slander, allegation, tittle-tattle, libel, story, US chiefly naval scuttlebutt: I have been hearing tales about wild parties at the neighbours' again.
talisman n. amulet, charm, tiki, fetish or fetich, ju-ju, periapt, abraxas; wishbone, rabbit's foot, Brit merry thought: He was given a talisman that was supposed to protect its wearer from bad luck.
tall adj. 1 high, towering, big, soaring, lofty, giant, gigantic; multi-storey: The giant sequoias of California are the tallest trees in the world. There are many tall buildings in most major cities. 2 lanky, gangling, rangy, leggy, long-legged, big, giant, huge, gigantic, large: Some of those basketball players are unbelievably tall. 3 exaggerated, overblown, far-fetched, improbable, unbelievable, incredible, preposterous, outrageous, overdone, absurd, Colloq Brit steep: He told us some amusing tall tales about his fishing adventures.
tang n. 1 pungency, piquancy, bite, zest, zestiness, sharpness, poignancy, spiciness, nip, edge, spice, taste, flavour, savour, aroma, smell, odour, Colloq zip, kick: Ginger root gives the dish just the right tang. 2 tinge, flavour, hint, suggestion, soupon, trace, dab, smack, touch, smattering: The new version has the tang of the original without its obsolete words. 3 prong, tab, projection, tongue, strip, tine, shank, pin, spike: The tang of a good knife goes right through to the end of the handle.
tantalize v. tease, taunt, provoke, torment, torture, bait, tempt, plague, frustrate: They tantalized him by hanging the keys to his cell just outside his reach.
tap n. 1 cock, stopcock, pet-cock, sillcock, seacock, spigot, spout, valve, US faucet: Replace the washer in the tap to stop the leak. 2 bung, stopper, cork, spile, plug, stopple, peg: Move the tap from the empty barrel to the new one. 3 wire-tap, bug, listening device, electronic eavesdropper: I think there's a tap on my phone. 4 on tap. a on draught, out of the barrel or keg: They have real ale on tap. b ready, available, on or at hand, waiting, in reserve, on call: He promised to be on tap if I needed him for anything. --v. 5 drain, draw (off), siphon off or out, extract, withdraw: We tapped the wine directly from the casks. 6 open, drain, unplug, sap, bleed, milk, broach, mine, use, utilize, make use of, put to use, draw on or upon, turn to account: Whenever she needed money, she tapped her savings. 7 bug, eavesdrop on, wire-tap: MI5 still taps her phone.
target n. goal, object, objective, aim, end; butt, quarry: The target of the charity drive is to raise 30,000. Why make Peter the target of your ridicule?
tart adj. 1 sour, acidic, acidulous, acidulated, lemony, citrusy, vinegary, acetous, acescent; sharp, tangy, astringent, acerb, acerbic, acrid, bitter, pungent, piquant, harsh: Those grapes are a bit tart for my taste. 2 biting, bitter, caustic, acid, corrosive, mordant, astringent, acrimonious, trenchant, harsh, scathing, stinging, acerbic, incisive, cutting, keen,barbed, nasty, curmudgeonly, testy, crusty, abusive, virulent, sarcastic, sardonic, satiric(al), vicious, cynical: You can rely on Henry for a tart rebuff every time.
tasteful adj. in good taste, decorous, refined, finished, tactful, polite, polished, restrained, correct, harmonious, fitting, fit, proper, discriminating, aesthetic, discriminative, fastidious, cultivated, comme il faut, elegant, graceful, charming: Though a bit shabby, her clothes were demure and tasteful.
tattered adj. ragged, torn, shredded, rent, threadbare: Above the altar in the chapel hang the tattered standards of the regiment, dating from the Crimean War.
tautology n. repetition, redundancy, battology, pleonasm, iteration, tautologism; repetitiousness, repetitiveness, wordiness, prolixity, verbiage, verbosity, long-windedness: Clichs like 'null and void' and 'cease and desist' are tautologies. Tautology, when called 'repetition', is often used for rhetorical effect.
teach v. instruct (in), inform (about), communicate (to), educate, guide, train, tutor, coach, enlighten, edify, indoctrinate, inculcate, instil, school in, demonstrate, show, familiarize or acquaint with, give lessons (in) (to); drill, discipline: She is qualified to teach chemistry. Captain Ross taught many youngsters to sail. She wants to teach when she completes her training.
tearful adj. weeping, crying, in tears, sobbing, whimpering, dewy-eyed, blubbering, snivelling, lachrymose, Colloq weepy: She was tearful as she told him they could not meet again.
tedious adj. over-long, long-drawn-out, prolonged, endless, unending, monotonous, unchanging, changeless, unvarying, laborious, long-winded, wearing, wearying, wearisome, tiring, exhausting, fatiguing, tiresome, boring, dreary, dull, dry-as-dust, drab, colourless, vapid, insipid, flat, uninteresting, banal, unexciting, prosaic, prosy, soporific, humdrum, routine, repetitious, repetitive, mechanical, automaton-like, automatic, Colloq ho-hum, Slang dead, US blah: For almost fifty years my father had a tedious job on an assembly line.
teenager n. adolescent, youth, boy, girl, young man, young lady, juvenile, minor, Colloq kid: The town ought to provide a place where teenagers can get together.
telescope n. 1 spyglass, Old-fashioned glass; refracting telescope, reflecting telescope, radio telescope: Through the telescope, he could just discern the American coastline. --v. 2 shorten, compress, abbreviate, curtail, condense, summarize, prcis, digest, tighten (up), boil down, abridge, truncate, abstract: Telescope the report into two columns for page 2. 3 concertina, squash, crush: The first three carriages of the train were telescoped in the crash.
telling adj. 1 effective, effectual, influential, weighty, important, powerful, forceful, potent, significant, considerable, striking: The new colour scheme in the office has had a telling effect on morale. --n. 2 tattling, (too) revealing, Colloq letting the cat out of the bag, giving away the whole show: I cannot say why her key was found in his pocket - that would be telling.
temperate adj. 1 moderate, reasonable, (self-)restrained, disciplined, controlled, forbearing, reasonable, sensible, sane, rational, not excessive, composed, steady, stable, even-tempered, equable, sober, sober-sided, sober-minded, mild, dispassionate, unimpassioned, cool, cool-headed, unexcited, calm, unruffled, tranquil, imperturbable, unperturbed, self-possessed, quiet, serene: Even the most temperate of women would lose her cool when dealing with a man like that. 2 abstemious, teetotal, abstinent, continent, moderate, sober; chaste, celibate, austere, ascetic, self-denying, puritanical: Those who lead temperate lives seem to live no longer than those who yield to dissipation.
temple n. place or house of worship, holy place, house of God, church, synagogue, mosque, pagoda, cathedral, sanctuary, chapel, shrine, Yiddish shul or schul: Temples to gods are found throughout the world.
temporary adj. impermanent, makeshift, stopgap, stand-by, provisional; pro tem, transitory, transient, fleeting, fugitive, passing, ephemeral, temporal, evanescent, short-lived, momentary: I suppose it will have to do as a temporary substitute.
temptress n. seductress, vamp, siren, femme fatale, coquette, flirt, enchantress, sorceress, Circe, Slang sexpot, man-eater, US foxy lady, fox, mantrap: You warned me against that temptress because you wanted her for yourself.
tenancy n. occupancy, occupation, possession, tenure: Our tenancy of the house expires next month. The tenancy of this position is a year.
tendency n. inclination, bent, leaning, disposition, propensity, predisposition, proclivity, predilection, susceptibility, proneness, readiness, partiality, affinity, bias, drift, direction, trend, movement: Brian has always had a tendency to being overweight. The particles exhibit a tendency to align themselves north and south.
tenet n. belief, credo, creed, article of faith, ideology, precept, conviction, principle, dogma, idea, opinion, position, view, viewpoint, maxim, axiom, canon, teaching, doctrine: They accept the Golden Rule as a fundamental tenet of their organization.
tentative adj. 1 experimental, speculative, exploratory, probative, trial, provisional: We have tentative plans for introducing a new work methodology. 2 unsure, hesitant, uncertain, indecisive, cautious, timid, shy, diffident, uneasy, apprehensive: The child gave him a tentative smile, not knowing what to expect.
term n. 1 name, title, designation, appellation; word, expression, locution, phrase: The term for that is venturi tube. Habeas corpus is a term of art in law. 2 semester; time, period (of time), interval, length of time, span (of time), duration, spell, stretch, while: During the summer term we played cricket every Saturday. He was sentenced to a long term of imprisonment. 3 sitting, stint, session, course; incumbency, administration: During their latest term of office, interest rates were raised twice. 4 Often, terms. condition(s), provision(s), article(s), clause(s), proviso(s); stipulation(s), qualification(s), assumption(s): According to the terms of the will, proceeds from the patent go into a trust fund. 5 come to terms. agree, come to or reach an agreement or an arrangement or an understanding, reconcile, arrange, settle, compromise: Can we come to terms on the price? He will simply have to come to terms with his conscience. 6 in terms of. concerning, regarding, as regards, with regard to, in relation to, relative to, relating to, in the matter of: The psychiatrist offered little in terms of direct solutions to my problems. 7 terms. a payment, schedule, rates: What terms have they offered to settle the debt? b standing, position, basis, relationship, relations, footing: I always thought you two were on good terms. --v. 8 call, name, label, designate, denominate, entitle, title, style, dub; nickname: Abraham Lincoln was termed, among other things, 'The Great Emancipator'.
terminology n. nomenclature, vocabulary, language, words, locutions, wording, terms, phraseology, phrasing, jargon, shop-talk, argot, cant, Colloq lingo: Medical terminology requires specialized dictionaries.
terribly adv. very, extremely, exceedingly, thoroughly, decidedly, unbelievably, incredibly, monumentally, outrageously, awfully, fabulously, Colloq frightfully: They were terribly apologetic about being late. I missed him terribly when he left.
territory n. 1 area, region, district, neighbourhood, zone, sector, tract, land, precinct, quarter, vicinage, vicinity, purlieu: Each one of these animals stakes out its own territory and protects it. 2 area, bailiwick, domain, province, haunts, patch, Colloq stamping-ground, US turf: Richard would be best advised to stick to his own territory.
test n. 1 trial, examination, exam, proof, evaluation, assay, check, check-up, investigation, study, analysis: My physics test is tomorrow. Have you had a blood test lately? --v. 2 try (out), check (up) (on), examine, evaluate, assess, assay, prove, probe: Someone ought to test the water for purity.
testy adj. irritable, bad-tempered, irascible, short-tempered, petulant, touchy, tetchy, querulous, peevish, hot-tempered, crusty, cross, grumpy, grouchy, bearish, crabby, crabbed, fretful, captious, waspish, snappish, quarrelsome, fractious, contentious, choleric, splenetic, ill-humoured, disagreeable, ill-tempered, edgy, on edge, quick-tempered, crotchety, cantankerous, US cranky, Colloq and US and Canadian dialect ornery: The old colonel made a few testy remarks about the boys' haircuts. Why make excuses for his being so testy?
thank v. 1 express or show (one's) gratitude or thanks or appreciation, say thank you or thanks, give or offer or tender thanks: Don't forget to thank your uncle for the gift, William. 2 blame, hold responsible, credit, acknowledge: You have your mother to thank for the present state of affairs. --n. 3 thanks. gratitude, appreciation, gratefulness, acknowledgement, recognition, thanksgiving: I gave thanks that I was again on dry land. 4 thanks to. owing to, because of, as a result of, thanks be given to, in consequence of, as a consequence of, by reason of, through, Sometimes non-standard due to: Thanks to you, I have to commute to work by train.
theatrical adj. 1 theatric, dramatic, stage, histrionic, Thespian; repertory: He joined a theatrical company and his family disowned him. 2 stagy, overdone, camp, campy, melodramatic, overwrought, exaggerated, forced, overacted, overacting, sensational, sensationalistic, fake, false, mannered, affected, unnatural, artificial, showy, ostentatious, spectacular, extravagant, Colloq phoney or US also phony, ham or hammy, grandstand: Does Fergus's theatrical behaviour ever embarrass you?
theoretical adj. 1 hypothetical, conjectural, speculative, untested, unproved, unproven, moot, putative, debatable, supposititious, suppositional: The theoretical trajectory will take it beyond Uranus. 2 impractical, unrealistic, pure, ideal, abstract, academic: The suggestion was purely theoretical, since we have no means of carrying it out.
therapist n. psychotherapist, psychologist, analyst, therapeutist, psychiatrist, psychoanalyst, counsellor, advisor, Colloq shrink: For some problems it is best to seek the advice of a trained counsellor or therapist.
thesis n. 1 argument, theory, proposition, point, contention, belief, idea, premise or premiss, assumption, view, assertion, precept, opinion, notion, theorem, axiom, postulate: Think how many centuries it took man to come to grips with the thesis that all men are created equal. 2 See theme, 2, above.
thicket n. copse, brake, grove, covert, wood, Brit spinney: We concealed our horses in the thicket and stole ahead on foot.
thing n. 1 item, (inanimate) object, article, possession: They went without leaving a thing behind. 2 item, subject, matter, detail, feature, aspect, affair, constituent, element, factor, point: There's one thing that I forgot to mention. It's a small thing, but I like coffee with my breakfast. 3 fad, trend, fashion: Let me show you the latest thing in sports cars. 4 feeling, reaction, attitude, sentiment, emotional attachment; quirk, fixation, preoccupation, obsession; fetish or fetich, ide fixe, affection, liking, partiality, predilection, fancy, love, passion, mania; phobia, fear, terror, aversion, loathing, horror, detestation, dislike, Colloq hang-up: A chocoholic has a thing about chocolate. Pet snakes are not Patricia's thing. Roger has a thing about going out in public. 5 device, item, gadget, object, entity, mechanism, contrivance, apparatus, instrument, utensil, Colloq dingus, doodad, whatchamacallit, thingumajig, whosis, whatsis, thingummy, thingumabob, Chiefly US and Canadian gismo or gizmo: Where's the thing that is supposed to hold the flywheel in place? 6 chore, task, responsibility, matter; act, action, deed, activity, proceeding: The first thing I must do is to phone home. 7 opportunity, chance, possibility: See me first thing tomorrow. 8 things. a affairs, matters, business, concerns: I have to take care of some things at the office today. b circumstances, events, happenings: Things are rarely what they seem. c belongings, luggage, baggage, impedimenta, possessions, paraphernalia, effects, clothes, clothing, goods; equipment, tools, utensils, implements, apparatus, Colloq gear, stuff, Slang Brit clobber, US crap, junk, Taboo slang US shit: Take your things and leave at once! The plumber left his things at the shop.
thinking adj. 1 rational, sensible, ratiocinative, intelligent, reasoning, reasonable; meditative, contemplative, reflective, philosophical, cogitative, pensive, thoughtful, intellectual: Any thinking person would have done the same as you. --n. 2 opinion, judgement, belief, thought, point of view, viewpoint, assessment, evaluation, theory, reasoning, conclusion, idea, philosophy, outlook: There is nothing either good or bad, but thinking makes it so. Do you concur with the current thinking on education?
thorny adj. 1 prickly, barbed, spiny, spiked, brambly, spinous, Technical spinose, acanthoid, spiculose, spiculate, spinulose, aciculate, muricate, barbellate, setigerous, setaceous, setiferous, setose: The insect's feet have tiny thorny projections. 2 difficult, hard, tough, prickly, nettlesome, painful, ticklish, delicate, intricate, critical, complex, complicated, problematic, vexatious, knotty, tangled, involved, troublesome, controversial, nasty, worrying, Colloq sticky, Slang hairy: Many thorny questions have vexed us throughout the ages.
thought n. 1 thinking, reflection, reflecting, meditation, meditating, contemplation, contemplating, cogitation, cogitating, musing, pondering, rumination, ruminating, brooding, mental activity, mentation, brown study; brainwork, cerebration, deliberation, deliberating, consideration, considering: She was deep in thought. The solution may require considerable thought. 2 idea, notion, brainstorm, observation: I have a thought that I'd like to share with you. 3 consideration, contemplation, planning, plan, scheme, design, intention, expectation, hope, prospect, anticipation, dream, vision: Any thought of taking a few days off had to be abandoned. 4 thoughtfulness, consideration, kindliness, kind-heartedness, concern, compassion, tenderness, kindness, sympathy, attentiveness, regard, solicitude: I don't need any help, but I appreciate the thought. 5 Often, thoughts. recollection(s), memory or memories, remembrance(s), reminiscence(s): Now and then he comforted himself with thoughts of his happy childhood. 6 intellect, intelligence, reasoning, rationality, ratiocination, reason: Some believe that only humans are capable of thought. 7 bit, trifle, touch, small amount, trace, soupon, little, tinge: This champagne is a thought too sweet.
thread n. 1 fibre, filament, strand, (piece of) yarn; string, line, cord, twine: Threads from his jacket were found clutched in the victim's hand. The glass is spun out into fine threads. 2 theme, plot, story-line, subject, motif, thesis, course, drift, direction, tenor, train (of thought), sequence or train or chain of events: It is difficult to follow the thread of the story when it has so many digressions. --v. 3 string: Carefully thread the beads onto the wire. 4 file, wind, pass, squeeze (through), pick or make (one's) way (through), inch, ease: He threaded his way through the crowd to reach the dais.
threatening adj. ominous, menacing, portentous, sinister, looming, inauspicious, minatory, minacious, comminatory, intimidating, foreboding, imminent, impending: Threatening storm clouds began to build in the western sky.
thrill n. 1 excitement, titillation, frisson, tingle, tingling (sensation), stimulation, Colloq kick, bang, charge, buzz: Victor feels a tremendous thrill when his daughter wins a tennis match. 2 tremor, quiver, quivering, shudder, shuddering, tremble, trembling, flutter, throb, throbbing, tremor, pulsation, vibration: The only warning was a slight thrill in the earth just before the main quake. --v. 3 excite, stimulate, animate, electrify, galvanize, enliven, stir, titillate, touch, strike, move, impassion, arouse, Slang send, give (someone) a kick: They were thrilled to discover that they had won an award.
throng n. 1 horde, crowd, host, assemblage, assembly, gathering, mass, crush, jam, multitude, congregation, press, swarm, herd, flock, bevy, drove: Throngs of people packed the shopping mall on Saturday. --v. 2 crowd (into), fill, pack (into), cram (into), crush (into), jam (into), press (into), swarm (into), herd (into), flock (into or to); assemble (in or at), gather (in or at), mass (in or at), congregate (in or at): Thousands thronged the stadium to watch the tennis matches.
thrust v. 1 push, shove, drive, force, impel, ram, jam, butt, propel, prod, urge, press; shoulder, jostle, elbow: A stranger thrust this note into my hand. She thrust her way through the crowd. 2 stab, plunge, stick, jab, poke; lunge: He thrust the dagger into the man's back. She thrust at me with an ice pick. 3 Usually, thrust upon. press (upon or on), impose (upon or on), force (upon or on), urge (upon or on): They were willing to help, but rather thought the problem had been thrust upon them. --n. 4 shove, push, drive, lunge, poke, prod, stab: He depended on his agility to avoid the thrusts of the rapier. 5 propulsion, force, power, energy: The thrust of the photon engines drives the space ship at nearly the speed of light.
thumbnail adj. rough, undetailed, cursory, sketchy, superficial; brief, short, quick; compact, concise, pithy, succinct: His poetry is a chilling, thumbnail sketch of the way we live now.
thunderstruck adj. dumbfounded or dumfounded, astonished, astounded, awestruck, awed, speechless, struck dumb, amazed, taken aback, staggered, stunned, shocked, dazed, numb, paralysed, aghast, open-mouthed, nonplussed, Colloq flabbergasted, floored, bowled over, Brit knocked for six: We were thunderstruck to learn that our team had been disqualified.
ticklish adj. 1 uncertain, unsteady, unsure, unstable, unsettled, fickle, touch-and-go, touchy: Power that relies on the sword has a ticklish basis. 2 delicate, precarious, risky, hazardous, dangerous, critical, thorny, fragile, awkward: As the canoe drifted towards the waterfall, we found ourselves in a very ticklish predicament. 3 delicate, sensitive, hypersensitive, difficult, touchy, prickly: Cornelia is a bit ticklish on the subject of her holiday plans.
tier n. row, line, level, order, range, course, series, stratum, layer, echelon, file, rank, storey: The trireme is said to have had three tiers of oarsmen.
tight adj. 1 secure, firm, fast, fixed, secured, close-fitting, snug, sealed, hermetically sealed, leak-proof, hermetic, impervious, impenetrable, impermeable, airtight, watertight, waterproof,: Make sure that the lid is tight. 2 taut, stretched, tense, constricting, (too) small, ill-fitting: She was wearing a very tight dress. 3 strict, binding, restrictive, stringent, severe, tough, uncompromising, unyielding, rigorous, stern, austere, autocratic, harsh, hard and fast, inflexible: You can't get away with anything under such tight regulations. I have a tight schedule next week. 4 Chiefly nautical taut, (well-)disciplined, orderly, neat, well-organized, trim, tidy, smart: He runs a tight ship. 5 stingy, niggardly, mean, penurious, miserly, parsimonious, penny-pinching, tight-fisted, close-fisted, Colloq Brit mingy: Glenn is much too tight to buy anyone a drink. 6 close, (almost) even, (highly) competitive, neck and neck, evenly matched: It is going to be a tight race. 7 difficult, trying, dangerous, perilous, risky, hazardous, touchy, problematic, sticky, tricky, ticklish, precarious, touch-and-go: The strike has created a tight situation at the office. 8 tipsy, drunk, intoxicated, Colloq high, woozy, under the influence, Brit tiddly: When I saw her, she was too tight to drive. 9 scarce, scanty, hard to find or come by, rare; dear, expensive: Entrepreneurs have found investment money to be pretty tight this year. --adv. 10 tightly, securely, firmly; closely: Keep this door closed tight. Hold me tight. Her hands were clasped tight in prayer. 11 compactly, densely, solidly, firmly, closely: We were packed so tight in the bus that no one could move.
tights n.pl. US and Canadian and New Zealand panty hose, Australian and US also pantihose: It was much too hot to wear tights.
timber n. 1 trees, forest, woodland: The standing timber has been seriously depleted in Brazil. 2 wood, beams, boards, planks, US and Canadian lumber: The timber for our new house arrived today. 3 material, potential, stuff, character, quality, talent, prospect: Agatha seems to be good management timber.
timeless adj. eternal, everlasting, immortal, undying, endless, unending, ceaseless, abiding, deathless, ageless, changeless, unchanged, immutable, unchanging, permanent, indestructible: He was enraptured by the timeless beauty of the heavens.
time-worn adj. ageing, old, tired, worn, time-scarred, decrepit, dilapidated, tumbledown, ramshackle, run-down, dog-eared, ragged, moth-eaten, threadbare, seedy, shabby, archaic, antique, well-worn, worn out, pass, broken-down, old-fashioned, out-dated, dated, antiquated, ancient, obsolescent, obsolete, stereotyped, stereotypic(al), hackneyed, stale, trite, overused, Colloq old hat: She went into her time-worn routine about two living as cheaply as one.
tint n. 1 tincture, wash, hue, colour, cast; tinge, touch, hint, trace, dash, colouring, shade, tone, suggestion: In the west a tint of pink lingered in the sky. I thought I detected a tint of anger in his voice. 2 dye, rinse, wash, stain, tincture, colourant, colouring, touch-up: What's the harm in granny's using blue hair tint? --v. 3 dye, stain, colour, rinse, tinge, touch up: Sandra tints her hair to give it a coppery sheen. 4 tinge, colour, influence, affect, taint, stain: A deep pessimism tints all his writing.
tip n. 1 gratuity, baksheesh, pourboire, douceur, lagniappe or lagnappe, present, gift, Colloq little something: That waiter didn't deserve a tip. 2 tip-off, (inside) information, warning, advice, suggestion, clue, hint, pointer, forecast, prediction, Colloq Brit gen: Louie had a tip that the police were coming. Her tip was 'Flapdoodle' to win the fifth race. --v. 3 reward: Why did you tip the barmaid? 4 Usually, tip off. advise, warn, caution, alert, forewarn, notify, let (someone) know, Colloq let (someone) in on: The thieves were tipped off and never arrived.
tireless adj. energetic, vital, vigorous, dynamic, spirited, lively, indefatigable, hardworking, industrious, untiring, unflagging, unfaltering, unfailing, persistent, dogged, tenacious, pertinacious, persevering, staunch, sedulous, unwavering, unswerving, undeviating, steady, steadfast, resolute, determined: We all appreciate the honorary secretary's tireless efforts on behalf of our fund-raising this year.
title n. 1 name: You cannot tell much from a book's title. 2 designation, appellation, epithet: Aubrey is now an earl, but he rarely uses his title. 3 caption, inscription, headline, head, subtitle, legend, subhead, rubric: The title on this picture has nothing to do with its subject. 4 championship, crown: He holds the world heavyweight boxing title. 5 right, interest, privilege, entitlement, ownership, possession, tenure; (title-)deed, documentation of ownership: My aunt has sole title to these lands. --v. 6 name, call, designate, style, label, term, entitle, christen, baptize, nickname, denominate, tag, dub: Harold was titled King of the Revels.
toilsome adj. arduous, laborious, tough, hard, difficult, strenuous, burdensome, onerous, back-breaking, exhausting, fatiguing, tiring, enervating, wearying, draining: After a toilsome ascent we finally reached the first camp.
tolerant adj. open-minded, objective, forbearing, unprejudiced, unbigoted, dispassionate, broad-minded, indulgent, magnanimous, patient, generous, charitable, catholic, latitudinarian, permissive, liberal, big-hearted, fair, even-handed, considerate: I am more tolerant of people than of their ideas.
tomb n. sepulchre, crypt, vault, mausoleum, grave, catacomb, burial-chamber, final or last resting-place: Every year his tomb is visited by a mysterious woman in black.
tongue-lashing n. scolding, berating, reproof, rebuke, reprimand; (verbal) abuse, castigation, chastisement, vituperation, revilement, Colloq dressing-down, telling-off, talking-to, Brit slating, ticking-off, wigging: For all his efforts to please, he only got a tongue-lashing for interfering.
top n. 1 summit, apex, peak, acme, crest, head, pinnacle, vertex, zenith, meridian, crown, culmination, high point, height, apogee: They reached the top of the mountain at dawn. For a change, I should like to be at the top looking down. Samantha remains at the top of her profession. 2 lid, cover, cap, covering, stopper, cork: Put the top back on the bottle when you're through. --v. 3 surpass, better, best, outstrip, exceed, outdo, excel, beat, transcend: It would be impossible to top some of his achievements. 4 surmount, cover, cap, crown, tip; finish, complete, garnish: The entire concoction was topped by a maraschino cherry. 5 trim, crop, lop or cut off, clip, prune, nip, pinch (back): All the trees in this area have been topped to let in more sunlight. 6 scale, climb, ascend, surmount: The party topped Annapurna the next day. 7 top up. fill (up), refresh, refill, replenish, US freshen (up): He asked the barman to top up our drinks. --adj. 8 best, greatest, foremost, leading, pre-eminent, eminent, first, first-rate, principal, prime, finest, choicest, topmost; excellent, superior, superb, top-drawer, top-grade, top-notch, supreme, peerless, unequalled, incomparable, Colloq crack, ace, A-1 or A-one: Is he the top man in his field? She is a top economics adviser to the government. 9 uppermost, topmost, highest: The top fruit is the best.
topsy-turvy adj. 1 upside down, wrong side up, head over heels, inverted, reversed, backwards, vice versa: The children were wearing their pyjamas topsy-turvy. 2 chaotic, muddled, jumbled, disorderly, disordered, disorganized, confused, mixed-up, messy, untidy, in a muddle, higgledy-piggledy, Colloq arsy-versy, every which way: The room was completely topsy-turvy and it was impossible to find anything.
torrent n. stream, rush, flood, deluge, effusion, gushing, outburst, outpouring, spate, inundation, flow, overflow, tide, cascade: In minutes the brook became a rushing torrent. They assailed us with a torrent of abuse.
toss v. 1 throw, cast, lob, pitch, fling, hurl, heave, shy, launch, send, let fly, propel, catapult, sling, bowl, Colloq chuck: The goalkeeper tossed the ball into the middle of the field. 2 shake, jerk, stir up, agitate, fling: Lucy disdainfully tossed her head. 3 shake (up), stir (up), agitate, jiggle, tumble, joggle; wave, lash, thrash: Don't you put the dressing on before you toss the salad? The branches of the huge oak were being tossed about in the storm. 4 writhe, wriggle, squirm, toss and turn, thrash: I tossed all night, unable to get a moment's sleep. 5 pitch, yaw, wallow, roll, lurch, undulate, plunge: Our little boat was tossed this way and that in the heavy seas. --n. 6 throw, lob, pitch, heave, shy: His toss went wild and the ball rolled over the cliff.
totality n. total, aggregate, sum (total), whole, entirety, beginning and end, alpha and omega, be-all and end-all: The totality of his interests lies in watching soap operas on TV.
touching adj. moving, stirring, emotional, tender, poignant, pathetic, soul-stirring, heart-rending, heart-breaking, sad, pitiful, distressing, distressful: The most touching scene is the one where the boy meets his father for the first time.
tour n. 1 journey, trip, excursion, outing, expedition, voyage, trek, peregrination, jaunt, junket: We went on a guided tour because we were short of time and wanted to see everything. 2 stroll, perambulation, walkabout, ramble, walk, drive; round, circuit, ambit: The government representatives are on a tour of all nuclear facilities. 3 spell, shift, assignment, turn, Military period of service or enlistment: His tour of duty is not finished till midnight. --v. 4 journey, travel, voyage, visit, trip, trek, sightsee, cruise; Colloq globe-trot: On retirement we spent a year just touring around Europe.
tout v. 1 hawk, peddle, sell, promote, talk up, Colloq push, plug: They tout these new headache tablets as miraculous. --n. 2 tipster: He is often seen with racetrack touts.
towering adj. 1 lofty, tall, high, soaring, outstanding, elevated, sky-scraping, sky-high, great, impressive, imposing, huge, gigantic, supreme, superior, paramount, extraordinary, unmatched, unequally, unrivalled, unparalleled, unsurpassed: The towering American economy dominated the world for decades after World War II. 2 violent, fiery, burning, passionate, excessive, vehement, intense, consuming, mighty, overwhelming, unrestrained, immoderate, inordinate, intemperate, extreme, colossal, enormous: Every time she mentioned Valentino, he went into a towering rage.
trackless adj. empty, pathless, untrodden, unexplored, uncharted, virgin, untrod: We found ourselves in the trackless wilderness of central Australia.
traction n. grip, gripping power, drag, purchase, friction, adhesion: Unable to get any traction on the ice, the car skidded off the road.
tradition n. custom, practice, habit, usage, convention, ritual, rite, unwritten law, institution, form, praxis, lore: Exchanging gifts on Christmas Eve has long been a tradition in our family.
tragic adj. sad, depressing, lamentable, unhappy, funereal, forlorn, melancholy, cheerless, mournful, lachrymose, dolorous, grievous, morose, lugubrious, dismal, piteous, pitiable, pitiful, pathetic(al), appalling, wretched, dreadful, awful, terrible, horrible, deplorable, miserable, distressing, disturbing, upsetting, shocking, unlucky, unfortunate, hapless, ill-fated, inauspicious, star-crossed, ill-omened, ill-starred, calamitous, catastrophic, crushing, disastrous; tragical: It was really tragic that we couldn't get there in time to say goodbye.
traitor n. turncoat, Judas, quisling, betrayer, renegade, fifth-columnist, US Benedict Arnold, Colloq double-crosser, snake in the grass, double-dealer, two-timer: Some traitor in their midst had revealed their plans to the enemy.
trammel n. 1 Usually, trammels. impediment(s), hindrance(s), shackle(s), handicap(s), check(s), restriction(s), restraint(s), curb(s), deterrent(s), constraint(s), hitch(es), snag(s), (stumbling) block(s), obstacle(s), bar: He managed to avoid the trammels of domesticity. --v. 2 impede, hinder, handicap, check, restrain, curb, deter, constrain, block, obstruct, fetter, confine: Do not let the limitations of what's practical and possible trammel your imagination.
tranquil adj. calm, serene, placid, quiet, peaceful, still, smooth, unagitated, halcyon, relaxed; unruffled, sedate, steady, regular, even, dispassionate, self-possessed, cool, self-controlled, cool-headed, unexcited, undisturbed, untroubled, unperturbed: He often thought back to the tranquil, sultry summer days of his youth. How can Eleanor be so tranquil when everything about her is so chaotic?
transaction n. 1 deal, dealing, negotiation, matter, affair, business, action, proceeding, agreement, arrangement, bargain: This transaction must not be revealed to the stock market. 2 transactions. proceedings, record(s), acta, minutes, annals, Colloq goings-on, doings: The Society's transactions are published annually.
transcript n. 1 transcription, translation, transliteration, rendering, interpretation, representation: Most linguists regarded writing as a mere transcript of language. 2 (carbon or machine or Xerox or photostatic or xerographic) copy, carbon, duplicate, duplication, photocopy, reproduction, Photostat, Colloq dupe: I have requested a transcript of the court proceedings.
transformation n. change, modification, transfiguration, transfigurement, alteration, transmutation, metamorphosis, conversion, transmogrification, mutation, permutation: The transformation in her appearance over a few short months was miraculous.
transgressor n. sinner, offender, criminal, felon, culprit, lawbreaker, trespasser, wrongdoer, evil-doer, villain, miscreant, malefactor, delinquent: The majority of transgressors are apprehended within 24 hours of the crime.
translate v. 1 convert, paraphrase, change, rewrite, interpret, transcribe, render, decode, decipher, metaphrase: Can you translate this German document? 2 transform, convert, change, mutate, turn, transmute, metamorphose, transubstantiate, alter, transmogrify: Why are people always trying to translate the dross of reality into the gold of dreams? 3 interpret, rewrite, explain, reword, elucidate, spell out: Can you translate this technical legal jargon into plain English? 4 transfer, convey, carry, move, transport, forward, ship, send, dispatch or despatch: Soon after being made bishop of Worcester, he was translated to Winchester.
transparent adj. 1 (crystal) clear, pellucid, diaphanous, see-through, limpid, crystalline, sheer, transpicuous: I want completely transparent glass in this window, instead of that frosted glass. 2 plain, apparent, obvious, evident, unambiguous, patent, manifest, unmistakable or unmistakeable, (crystal) clear, as plain as day, as plain as the nose on (one's) face, undisguised, recognizable, understandable, transpicuous: The origin of many English words is transparent because of their spelling. 3 candid, open, frank, plain-spoken, direct, unambiguous, unequivocal, straightforward, ingenuous, forthright, above-board, artless, guileless, simple, nave, undissembling, Colloq on the level, upfront: His transparent honesty makes Clive unsuited to a career in diplomacy.
transpose v. exchange, interchange, metathesize, switch, swap or swop, trade, commute, transfer: The bank transposed two figures on my statement, reducing my balance by 500.
traumatic adj. shocking, upsetting, disturbing, painful, agonizing, distressing, harmful, hurtful, injurious, damaging, wounding, traumatizing: Few experiences are more traumatic than losing a child.
traverse v. 1 cross, criss-cross, travel or pass or move over or through, walk, cover, travel (over), roam, wander, range, tramp, tour: He has traversed the country from end to end innumerable times. 2 cross, criss-cross, go across; lie or extend across or athwart, bridge, intersect: The road traverses the river several times at Newtown. 3 oppose, cross, thwart, go or act against, go or act in opposition or counter to, conflict (with), controvert, contravene, counter, obstruct, contradict, gainsay, deny: The policies of today seem to traverse those set forth only last year. 4 examine, look into, scrutinize, inspect, investigate, review, study, look at, consider, contemplate, scan, look over, check, survey, reconnoitre, observe: Certain areas of knowledge are seldom traversed by scholars.
treaty n. pact, agreement, alliance, concordat, entente, covenant, deal, contract, compact, accord: They entered into a treaty not to violate each other's borders.
trend n. 1 tendency, leaning, bias, bent, drift, course, inclination, direction: The trend seems to be towards shorter skirts. 2 fashion, style, vogue, mode, look, rage, Colloq fad, craze, thing: Why is she so compulsive about keeping up with the latest trends? --v. 3 tend, lean, be biased, bend, drift, incline, veer, turn, swing, shift, head: At the convention, the party leaders trended more to the left of centre.
tribunal n. court (of justice), bar, bench, judiciary, Inquisition, Star Chamber: Should he be tried before a judicial tribunal or pilloried by the tribunal of public opinion?
trickery n. chicanery, deception, deceit, guile, shrewdness, craftiness, slyness, shiftiness, evasiveness, artfulness, artifice, craft, imposture, swindling, knavery, duplicity, double-dealing, fraud, cheating, Colloq hanky-panky, skulduggery, funny or monkey business, jiggery-pokery: He separated her from her money by trickery.
trifling adj. trivial, insignificant, unimportant, puny, minor, paltry, slight, petty, inconsequential, frivolous, superficial, incidental, negligible, commonplace, inconsiderable, shallow, valueless, worthless, US and Canadian picayune, Colloq piddling: Their contribution to musical scholarship has been trifling.
triumph n. 1 victory, conquest, success, achievement, accomplishment, attainment, coup, ascendancy: The discovery of the drug was perhaps the greatest of his many triumphs. 2 exultation, rejoicing, exulting, elation, delight, rapture, exhilaration, jubilation, happiness, joy, celebration, glory: There was great triumph on winning the World Cup. --v. 3 Often, triumph over. win, succeed, carry the day, be victorious, gain a victory, take the honours, thrive, dominate, prevail; defeat, beat, rout, vanquish, best, conquer, overcome, overwhelm, subdue: Does justice always triumph? The book is about how man triumphed over pain.
trivialize v. belittle, denigrate, lessen, minimize, undervalue, depreciate, underestimate, underrate, make light of, laugh off, underplay, dismiss, disparage, misprize, beggar, deprecate, slight, scoff at, scorn, run down, decry, Colloq put down, play down, pooh-pooh: Edward tends to trivialize the work of others.
troublemaker n. mischief-maker, rabble-rouser, gadfly, firebrand, agent provocateur, stormy petrel, incendiary, gossip-monger, scandalmonger, malcontent, instigator, meddler, agitator: As far as the police were concerned, any protester was, by definition, a troublemaker.
truck n. 1 merchandise, commodities, goods, stock, wares, stuff, odds and ends, sundries, junk, rubbish, US trash: There was no one in the shop and all the truck was stacked in the corner. 2 dealing(s), traffic, business, transaction, trade, commerce, communication, contact, connection, (business or social) relations: She refuses to have any truck with the likes of you.
truism n. commonplace, platitude, bromide, axiom, clich, maxim: You can rely on Vera to utter a truism like, 'It's a nice day', on a warm, sunny day.
trusting adj. trustful, unsuspicious, confiding, confident, unsuspecting; nave, innocent, gullible, incautious, credulous: It is a good thing that her husband has a trusting nature. Samantha might be a little too trusting and could easily be deceived.
try v. 1 attempt, endeavour, essay, seek, undertake, venture, strive, struggle, make an effort, try (one's) hand at, Colloq have a stab or go or whack (at), take a shot or crack (at): He tried to help me with my homework. 2 test, try out, prove, evaluate, examine, inspect, check out, sample, appraise, assay, look over, analyse, scrutinize, assess, judge: I'll try your way of solving the problem. You won't know if it works till you try it. 3 test, prove, strain, tax: You are trying my patience with your silly questions. 4 hear, sit on, adjudicate, judge, adjudge: There are three more cases to try this month. --n. 5 attempt, endeavour, essay, undertaking, venture, struggle, effort, turn, Colloq go, stab, whack, fling, shot, crack: You have three tries to pin the tail on the donkey.
tumbledown adj. ramshackle, dilapidated, ruined, in ruins, decrepit, rickety, shaky, falling apart or to pieces, disintegrating, tottering, broken-down, crumbling, gone to rack and ruin: He lived for years in a tumbledown shanty near the railway.
tune n. 1 melody, air, song, strain, motif, theme: David presents a marvellous half-hour radio programme of show tunes every week. 2 euphony, pitch, harmony, accord, accordance, consonance, unison, correspondence, conformity: She cannot sing in tune. The guitar is out of tune with the piano. Her husband is out of tune with today's fashion. --v. 3 tune up, calibrate, adjust, regulate, coordinate, adapt, attune, align, set: That garage charges too much for tuning an engine. 4 tune in (on). attend (to), pay attention (to), listen (to), understand, be aware (of), be on the qui vive, be alert (to), Slang be on the same wavelength or frequency (with): I am not sure that Bernard is tuned in to what his sister does for a living. 5 tune out. ignore, disregard, turn a blind eye to, be blind to, turn one's back on, turn a deaf ear to: Sally is able to tune out anything she doesn't like to hear.
turn v. 1 rotate, revolve, spin, roll, reel, circle, gyrate, whirl, wheel, go (a)round or about, pivot, swivel: The earth turns on its axis. Turn the crank to raise the bucket. 2 move, shift, wheel, veer, swing, face: As she turned I noticed a horrible scar. 3 reverse, turn (a)round, alter, change, adapt, reorganize, remodel, modify, refashion, reshape, reform, transform, make over, convert, bring over: He has been trying to turn the business into a profit-making enterprise. He has turned defeat into advance. She managed to turn one of the most loyal membrs of the government. 4 go or pass or move (a)round, veer, drive, walk: Turn left at the corner. 5 go bad, become rancid, spoil, curdle, addle, sour, decay, moulder, rot, putrefy, Colloq go off: All the milk in the fridge had turned because of the power cut. 6 apply, put, use, employ: Is there any way we can turn this situation to our advantage? 7 Sometimes, turn aside or away. block, avert, thwart, prevent, balk or baulk, parry, deflect, fend off, check: He deftly turned aside the thrust of the dagger. 8 form, make up, fashion, formulate, construct, cast, create, coin, concoct, express: Donald certainly knows how to turn a felicitous phrase. 9 direct, aim, point: He turned the gun on himself and pulled the trigger. 10 twist, sprain, wrench: I have turned my ankle and cannot walk. 11 twist, wind, snake, curve, bend, arc, coil, loop, meander, zigzag: The road turned this way and that, following the river bank. 12 turn against. defy, mutiny, rebel, revolt, rise (up) against: The captain had not expected the first mate to turn against him, too. 13 turn back. a reverse, repulse, repel, rebuff, drive back, beat back: At last we turned back the enemy's advance. b go back, retrace (one's) steps, return: We must turn back before it is too late. 14 turn down. a refuse, reject, rebuff, decline, deny: My request for help was turned down. b decrease or diminish or lessen or lower or soften the sound of: Turn down the radio, I'm on the phone. 15 turn in. a go to bed or sleep, retire, withdraw, call it a day, Slang hit the sack or the hay: I usually turn in by eleven o'clock. b hand in or over, turn over, deliver, give in, submit, offer, proffer, tender, give back, return, surrender, yield: Please turn in your visitors' badges before you leave. c turn over, deliver (up), inform on, betray, Colloq squeal on, rat on, finger, tell on: For enough money, he'd turn in his own mother. 16 turn into. a turn to, become, change into or to, metamorphose into or to: Right before her, the prince turned into a frog again. b go or come into, drive into, pull into, walk into: They lost sight of the suspect when he turned into a side-street. 17 turn off. a stop, switch off, deactivate, discontinue; extinguish: First turn off the water, then the light. b disillusion, depress, cool (off), disenchant, disaffect, alienate, repel, repulse, bore, offend, put off, displease, sicken, nauseate, disgust: People who don't brush their teeth turn me off. c deviate, diverge: When you come to the fork, turn off to the right. 18 turn on. a start (up), switch on, energize, activate, set in motion, cause to function or operate: Turn on the light. b depend on or upon, be contingent on, hinge on or upon, be subject to: The success of the venture turns on our ability to capitalize it. c excite, thrill, arouse, stimulate, titillate, work up, impassion: He was really turned on by the girl in the bar. 19 turn on or upon. a concern, revolve about, relate to: The discussion turned on his ability to write music. b be hostile to, attack, assail, set upon, Colloq tear into: Oliver is so unpopular that his own dog turned on him and bit him. 20 turn out. a make, form, shape, construct, build, fabricate, put together, assemble, manufacture, produce, put out, bring out: The plant turns out a thousand cars a week. b develop, evolve, eventuate, happen, result, prove, occur, end up, arise: As it turned out, he lost anyway. It turns out that he knows my sister. c eject, evict, throw out, expel, oust, dismiss, terminate, cashier, Colloq fire, sack, kick out, axe, Brit turf out: When they found I wasn't a member, they turned me out. d dress, fit out, equip, rig out, accoutre or US also accouter: She was well turned out in a beautiful ball gown. e come, arrive, appear, attend, assemble, meet, Colloq show (up), surface: 55,000 turned out for the rock concert. 21 turn over. a consider, muse or ruminate over or about, revolve, ponder (over): I needed a while to turn over the job offer in my mind. b reverse, invert, turn upside down: Turn over the clock and read the inscription on the bottom. c overturn, upset, knock over: In my haste, I turned over the punch bowl. d sell, merchandise: A shop in that location ought to turn over a million a year. e rotate, revolve, spin, kick over: The engine turns over, but it won't start. 22 turn tail. run away, flee, bolt, scoot, show a clean pair of heels, cut and run, take to (one's) heels, beat a hasty retreat, Colloq take off, beat it, scram, skedaddle: He turned tail when I shouted for help. 23 turn to. a appeal to, apply to, resort to: She turned to me for help. b advert to, refer to, pick or take up, have recourse to: Please turn to your exercise books now. c get to work, pitch in, buckle or knuckle down: The neighbours turned to in helping clean up the mess after the storm. d turn into, change to, convert into, become: Lot's wife was turned to salt. 24 turn turtle. capsize, overturn, keel over, upset, up-end, Colloq go bottoms up: The overloaded barge turned turtle and sank in the river. 25 turn up. a surface, appear, arrive, Colloq show (up), show one's face: Guess who turned up at our wedding? b come up, arise, Colloq crop up, pop up: Something will turn up soon for you. c uncover, discover, find, unearth, come across, hit upon, dig up, expose, disclose, reveal, bring to light: We turned up a formerly unknown fact about the shipwreck. d increase or raise or amplify or intensify the sound of: Turn up the TV - I can't hear what they're saying. --n. 26 revolution, rotation, cycle, spin, whirl, circuit, round, roll, twirl; pirouette: He gave the top another turn, just to make sure it was on securely. 27 curve, bend, turning, corner, sinuosity, dog-leg, hairpin bend or curve, irregularity, meander, twist, zigzag, Colloq toing and froing: There are many dangerous turns on that road. 28 loop, coil, spiral, twist: Take two turns of this rope round your waist, then knot it. 29 deviation, turning, detour, shift, change of direction or course: A turn to the right is not permitted at this corner. 30 opportunity, chance, say, round, spell, time, watch, shift, stint, tour (of duty), move, trick, Colloq whack, crack, shot, go: You have had your turn, now let someone else go. 31 drive, spin, ride; airing, constitutional, ramble, saunter, stroll, walk, promenade, amble: Let's take a short turn round the park. 32 trend, direction, drift: The conversation took a new turn. 33 change, alteration, switch: The doctor says that Valerie has taken a turn for the better. 34 Usually, bad turn. disservice, harm, injury, wrong: If you do someone a bad turn, what can you expect? 35 Usually, good turn. favour, (good) deed, act (of kindness), courtesy, boon, mercy: One good turn deserves another. 36 shock, fright, surprise, start, scare: You really gave me a turn, jumping out like that! 37 form, style, manner, mode: Each turn of phrase in her writing seems original and refreshing. 38 disposition, inclination, bent, bias, leaning, tendency: Alistair is of a rather dour turn of mind tonight.39	at every turn. everywhere, constantly, always, all the time: In Scotland, we met with kindness and hospitality at every turn.40	by turns. alternately, reciprocally, in rotation, successively, in succession: The book is fascinating and frustrating by turns. 41 in turn. sequentially, one after the other, in succession, successively, in (proper) order: Each patient will be treated in turn. 42 out of turn. a out of sequence, out of order: I don't want you answering questions out of proper turn, Jonathan. b imprudently, indiscreetly, improperly, disobediently, inappropriately: I apologize if I am speaking out of turn on this issue. 43 take turns. alternate, vary, rotate, exchange: Let's take turns looking through the telescope.
turnout n. 1 assemblage, muster, attendance, audience, crowd, gate, throng, gathering: The turnout for the first day of the sale was enormous. 2 output, production, out-turn, volume; gross national product, GNP, gross domestic product, GDP: Turnout has improved since the settlement of the labour dispute. 3 gear, outfit, clothing, apparel, apparatus, equipment, trappings, fittings, equipage: Have you seen Charlie in his mountain-climbing turnout?
twee adj. precious, sweet, sentimental, quaint, dainty, cute, mignon(ne), bijou: The tearoom atmosphere is a bit too twee for my taste.
twilight n. 1 dusk, sunset, gloaming, sundown, half-light, crepuscule or crepuscle: We enjoyed dinner at twilight on the terrace overlooking the sea. 2 decline, wane, waning, ebb, downturn, down-swing, slump, decay, weakening, declination, diminution: Even at the twilight of his career, Jonas enjoyed the respect of his colleagues. 3 Twilight of the Gods. Gtterdmmerung, Ragnark or Ragnarok: The world ends at the Twilight of the Gods, only to be born anew. --adj. 4 evening, crepuscular, dimming, darkening, darkish, darksome, shadowy, shady, dim, dark, obscure, sombre, gloomy, Literary darkling: The Nymphs in twilight shade of tangled thickets mourn. 5 twilight zone. limbo: He lives in the twilight zone, unable to distinguish reality from fantasy.
twinkle v. 1 scintillate, sparkle, coruscate, glitter, shimmer, wink, flicker, glisten, glint, flash, fulgurate, spark, dance, blink, shine, gleam: The stars were twinkling in the icy black sky. Nicole's eyes twinkled as she told me about Max's latest success. --n. 2 twinkling, scintillation, scintillating, sparkle, sparkling, coruscation, coruscating, glitter, glittering, shimmer, shimmering, winking, flicker, flickering, glistening, glint, flash, flashing, fulguration, spark, sparking, dancing, blinking, shine, shining, gleam, gleaming, dazzle, dazzling: From far off, I caught the twinkle of the sun on car windscreens.
twister n. 1 cheat, swindler, confidence man or woman, rogue, scoundrel, swindler, trickster, mountebank, deceiver, fraud, impostor or imposter, Colloq con man or woman, crook: This particular twister preys on the elderly. 2 tornado, cyclone, typhoon, hurricane, whirlwind; waterspout: The twister picked up my bicycle and dropped it in my neighbour's garden.
two-faced adj. double-dealing, hypocritical, duplicitous, dissembling, deceitful, Janus-faced, treacherous, dishonest, untrustworthy, insincere, scheming, designing, crafty, Machiavellian, sly, perfidious, lying, mendacious: That two-faced liar told you one story and me another!
typify v. exemplify, instance, epitomize, personify, represent, characterize, embody, evince, symbolize, suggest: John's views typify the conservative approach.
tyrant n. dictator, despot, autocrat, martinet, Hitler, bully, oppressor, authoritarian, hard taskmaster, slave-driver, Simon Legree, overlord: It seems that no people or part of the world is immune to tyrants.
ulterior adj. 1 hidden, concealed, covert, secret, unrevealed, undisclosed, unexpressed, private, personal, underlying, surreptitious, underhand(ed): She had an ulterior motive for arriving early. 2 outside, beyond, further, remote, remoter: What you propose is ulterior to our immediate plan.
ultra- adj. extreme, immoderate, excessive, drastic, radical, fanatic(al), unmitigated, outrageous, unqualified, sheer, blatant, out-and-out, complete, thorough, thoroughgoing, dyed in the wool, die-hard, rabid, opinionated, unregenerate, unrepentant, unreformed, fundamentalist, prejudiced, bigoted, Colloq hard-nosed: Ultra-conservativism marked his views till the day he died.
umpteen adj. a lot of, many, innumerable, unnumbered, countless, a huge number of, very many, numerous, hundreds of, thousands of, millions of, billions of, trillions of: You've been told umpteen times, 'Don't go near the water'. unabashed adj. unashamed, unblushing, unembarrassed, brazen, blatant, bold, undaunted, unawed, undismayed, unconcerned: I couldn't put up with his unabashed conceit for another moment.
unacceptable adj. unsatisfactory, objectionable, wrong, bad, improper, unallowable, undesirable, not de rigueur, distasteful, disagreeable, unsuitable, inappropriate, unpleasant, tasteless: Murder is generally regarded as an unacceptable way to relieve oneself of unwanted company.
unadorned adj. plain, simple, unembellished, undecorated, unornamented, stark, bare, austere: She prefers an unadorned style, without frills.
unarmed adj. unprotected, defenceless, weaponless: The army began shooting unarmed civilians.
unavoidable adj. inescapable, ineluctable, inevitable, irresistible, inexorable, sure, certain, fated, destined, predestined, determined, predetermined, unchangeable, unalterable, settled, fixed, definite: Punishment is an unavoidable consequence of getting caught for something you shouldn't have done.
unbearable adj. intolerable, unsupportable, unendurable, insufferable, unacceptable, too much: The pain in her side was almost unbearable.
unbelieving adj. incredulous, disbelieving, non-believing, doubting, mistrusting, distrusting, mistrustful, distrustful, suspicious, sceptical, unpersuaded, unconvinced: The unbelieving world thinks that the age of miracles is past.
uncivilized adj. 1 barbarous, savage, wild, uncultivated, barbarian, barbaric, crude, primitive, brutish: He was an uncivilized man living in uncivilized surroundings. 2 unrefined, uncultured, uncouth, loutish, coarse, uneducated, untutored, unpolished, churlish, boorish, philistine, provincial, rough, rude, unlearned, ill-mannered, incondite, unmannerly, unsophisticated, inelegant, gross, gauche: Anna's father forbade her to go out with the uncivilized boors in the nearby town.
under prep. 1 beneath, below, underneath, covered by: What is under that blanket? The wreck lies a mile under the surface. 2 subordinate to, answerable to, inferior to, second to, secondary to, subservient to, below, beneath, underneath, junior to, directed or supervised or controlled by, under (the) control of, at the mercy of, at the beck and call of: The bashibazouks were under the sultan's top officers. 3 included or comprised in or under, subsumed under: This should be under the heading, 'What is the Stupidest Thing you have done Today?' Under which category is 'Software'? 4 under the aegis or protection or eye or guardianship or care of: The prince was trained under the grand vizier. 5 less than, lower than: I paid under 200 for my VCR. 6 under the influence. drunk, tipsy, high, impaired: The police charged him with driving while under the influence. --adv. 7 below, underneath, beneath: You looked on top of the bed, but have you looked under? 8 underwater, beneath the waves, down, out of sight: We watched helpless as he went under for the third time.
undercut v. 1 undermine, excavate, hollow out, cut out or away, gouge out: If you undercut the roadway it will collapse. 2 underprice, undercharge, sacrifice, sell cheaply or at a loss, undersell: The supermarkets undercut prices and put the independent grocers out of business.
underground adj. 1 subterranean, buried, below-ground, sunken, covered: They crept through the underground passage into the treasure room. 2 secret, clandestine, concealed, hidden, covert, undercover, surreptitious, stealthy, private: The secret service has a worldwide underground network of agents. 3 alternative, radical, experimental, avant-garde, nonconformist, revolutionary: Some underground newspapers that sprang up in the 1960s are still being published. --n. 4 tube, metro, underground railway, US subway: Two more stops on the underground and we'll be there. 5 resistance, partisans or partizans, freedom fighters, (in France) Maquis, insurgents, seditionaries or seditionists, insurrectionists, guerrillas or guerillas, extremists, revolutionaries; fifth-columnists, fifth column, saboteurs, subversives: The underground helped the family to escape to England. The government blames the underground for the bombings.
understanding n. 1 agreement, contract, arrangement, bargain, covenant, concession, pact, compact, accord, treaty, concordat, entente, alliance, truce, armistice, reconciliation, settlement: They reached an understanding with respect to nuclear weapons. 2 discernment, sensitivity, sensitiveness, sympathy, empathy, perception, insight, good sense, intuition, enlightenment, percipience, sagacity, sageness, sapience, wisdom, Colloq savvy: Georgianna brings so much understanding to her treatment of the aged. 3 Usually, understanding of. comprehension or, awareness or grasp or control or idea or conception or knowledge or mastery (of), acquaintance or familiarity or intimacy or dexterity or skilfulness or deftness or adroitness or adeptness (with), competence or skill or expertness or know-how or proficiency or expertise (in), Colloq US fix (on), handle (on): I know no one with a better understanding of medieval Welsh. 4 reading, interpretation, opinion, judgement, estimation, notion, view, perception, apperception, apprehension: My understanding of what took place is at odds with yours. 5 intellect, intelligence, mind, brain, brainpower, sense, reason, reasoning power, wisdom, Colloq brains: I'm afraid that he lacks the understanding needed to cope with the subtleties of the situation.
undertake v. 1 assume, take on or upon (oneself), accept, take or assume or bear the responsibility for, enter upon, begin, start, set about, embark on, tackle, try, attempt: Gates might be undertaking a bit too much, considering his condition. 2 promise, covenant, agree, contract, pledge, vow, swear, warrant, guarantee, bargain, commit (oneself), stipulate, engage: Is it not true that you undertook to complete the work in six months?
underwrite v. 1 back (up), finance, support, invest in, subsidize, subvene, sponsor, uphold, approve, insure, guarantee, US subvene: The company has agreed to underwrite the development of your invention. 2 subscribe to, endorse or indorse, sign, countersign, consent to, agree to, confirm, accede to, sanction, ratify, approve, validate, Colloq OK or okay: The government underwrote the action one day, then denied knowledge of it the next.
undisciplined adj. untrained, unschooled, unprepared, untutored, uneducated, untaught, unpractised, uncontrolled, disobedient, naughty, bad, wilful, wayward, unrestrained, erratic, unpredictable, unruly, wild: The sergeant has taken quite a few undisciplined recruits and knocked them into shape.
undivided adj. 1 whole, entire, unbroken, uncut, intact, unseparated, complete, unsplit: The family lands remained undivided for generations. 2 undiverted, whole, entire, devoted, concentrated, full, complete, exclusive, undistracted: You have my undivided attention.
undone adj. unaccomplished, uncompleted, incomplete, unfinished, omitted, neglected, left (out), skipped, missed, passed over, forgotten, unattended to: From this list of chores, how many are still undone?
unearthly adj. 1 supernatural, unnatural, preternatural, unworldly, other-worldly, psychic(al), extramundane, extraterrestrial, extrasensory, supersensory, out-of-(the)-body, asomatous, incorporeal, sublime, celestial, astral: They speculated about what unearthly experiences space travel might lead to. 2 weird, bizarre, macabre, nightmarish, uncanny, eerie, strange, ghostly, spectral, unreal, Literary eldritch, Colloq spooky, creepy: An unearthly creature appeared in a mist before her. 3 strange, odd, peculiar, unusual, abnormal, absurd, out of the ordinary, extraordinary, outrageous; unheard-of, unreasonable, Colloq ungodly: The baby wakes up at the unearthly hour of three o'clock every morning.
unenviable adj. uncoveted, undesirable, unwished for, unattractive: He was given the unenviable task of informing the victim's family.
unfold v. 1 open (out or up), spread (out), unfurl, stretch out, expand, uncoil, unwind, straighten out: Emerging from the pupa, it unfolds its wings and becomes a beautiful butterfly. 2 develop, evolve, happen, take place, occur, be divulged, be disclosed or revealed: What will unfold next in our little drama?
ungodly adj. 1 wicked, sinful, impious, blasphemous, heretical, irreligious, iconoclastic, atheist(ic), anti-religious, sacrilegious, demonic, demoniac(al), diabolic(al), satanic, fiendish, hellish, infernal; depraved, godless, corrupt, immoral, evil, iniquitous, bad, villainous, heinous, flagitious, profane, vile: The crusaders believed that they had a duty to deliver Jerusalem from the ungodly heathens. 2 awful, outrageous, indecent, monstrous, nasty, dreadful, terrible, appalling, frightful, shocking, Colloq God-awful, unearthly, Brit beastly: Margot and I were subjected to another ungodly evening at the Dawsons'.
ungrateful adj. unthankful, unappreciative, rude; selfish, heedless: That ungrateful wretch never thanked me for all my help.
unheard-of adj. 1 unknown, unfamiliar, obscure, unidentified, nameless, unsung: She is busy trying to promote some unheard-of sculptor. 2 unimaginable, undreamed of or undreamt of, unprecedented, unimagined, unbelievable, inconceivable, unusual: They took the unheard-of step of requiring that refunds be paid. Her starting salary is an unheard-of 100,000. 3 shocking, offensive, outrageous, disgraceful, extreme, unthinkable, outlandish: The victims were subjected to unheard-of tortures.
unidentified adj. nameless, anonymous, unknown, unmarked, unnamed, unknown, unfamiliar, unrecognized, mysterious: The police found the body of a unidentified woman in the park.
unimpeded adj. unblocked, unchecked, free, unconstrained, unrestrained, unhindered, unhampered, unencumbered, open, untrammelled, unrestricted: They insist on having unimpeded access to the files.
uninhibited adj. wild, unchecked, unbridled, uncurbed, intemperate, boisterous, unrepressed, unconstrained, unrestrained, uncontrolled, unselfconscious, unreserved, relaxed, casual, easygoing, free (and easy), open, frank, candid, outspoken, Colloq upfront: Their behaviour at the party was totally uninhibited. I will tell you what I think only if I can be totally uninhibited about it.
unison n. in unison (with). in harmony, together, corresponding exactly, in (perfect) accord, consonant, harmonious: Why is his singing never in unison with ours? We all responded in unison with a rousing 'No!'
unity n. 1 consistency, unanimity, constancy, uniformity, sameness, consensus, agreement, concord, concordance, accord, solidarity, compatibility, concurrence, continuity, consentaneousness, rapport, sympathy, like-mindedness: All members of the association enjoy a unity of purpose. 2 oneness, singularity, integrity, singleness, congruity, uniformity, congruousness, homogeneity, identity, sameness, resemblance, likeness, similarity, similitude: If there is little unity between your ideas and those of the organization, perhaps you should resign. 3 unification, uniting, combination: In unity is strength.
unkempt adj. dishevelled, uncombed, tousled, disarranged, ungroomed, wind-blown, untidy, disordered, mussed (-up), messy, messed-up, bedraggled, shaggy, scruffy, rumpled, slovenly, frowzy, blowzy, Archaic draggle-tailed, Colloq sloppy: Mother would refuse to allow us to the table if we were unkempt.
unlike adj. 1 different (from), dissimilar (to), unalike, distinct (from), opposite (from or to), contrasting or contrastive (with or to), separate (from), divergent (from), incompatible (with), distinguishable (from), far apart (from), far (from), distant (from), ill-matched (with), unequal (to), unequivalent (to): His notions of right and wrong are unlike those of other people. Although they're brothers, they look quite unlike each other. 2 atypical, uncharacteristic, untypical: It is unlike you to complain. --prep. 3 different from, differing from, in contradistinction to, in contrast with or to, dissimilar to, distinct from, opposite from or to, contrasting with or to, divergent from, incompatible with, distinguishable from, ill-matched with, unequal to, unequivalent to: Unlike you, I've been there and know what it's like.
unmentionable adj. 1 unspeakable, unutterable, ineffable, taboo, scandalous, forbidden, interdicted; inexpressible: I will not have Karen or her unmentionable boyfriend in this house again! 2 disgraceful, indecent, immodest, shameful, shocking, appalling, dishonourable, indescribable, obscene, filthy: In carnivals, geeks do unmentionable things with live chickens. --n. 3 unmentionables. underclothes, underclothing, underwear, undergarments, lingerie, Archaic small-clothes, Colloq underthings, undies, Brit smalls, US skivvies: The woman next door insists on hanging out her unmentionables in full view of the whole street.
unnatural adj. 1 Derogatory abnormal, perverse, perverted, monstrous, unusual, peculiar, strange, aberrant, improper, unseemly; Slang kinky , Chiefly Brit bent: There was a scandal when the senator was found to have engaged in some unnatural act. 2 sodomitic(al), bestial, tribadic, tribadistic: They still coyly referred to homosexual activities as 'unnatural acts'. 3 uncharacteristic, out of character, odd, peculiar, strange, unexpected, abnormal, unusual: Isn't it unnatural for someone who has won the sweepstakes to look so unhappy? 4 laboured, forced, stilted, stiff, restrained, artificial, false, insincere, feigned, contrived, affected, mannered, self-conscious, theatrical, stagy: She has an irritating, unnatural laugh. 5 outlandish, weird, uncanny, strange, odd, unaccountable, supernatural, preternatural, queer, grotesque, bizarre, extraordinary, eccentric, freakish: Let me tell you about the unnatural events that took place in that house.
unobtrusive adj. inconspicuous, unostentatious, low-key, retiring, modest, self-effacing, unpresuming, unpretentious, unassuming, quiet, humble, unaggressive, unassertive, non-assertive, subdued, reserved, reticent, suppressed: Agatha may seem unobtrusive, but she's a tigress when aroused.
unpaid adj. 1 payable, outstanding, owed, owing, due, unsettled: In the end he absconded, leaving a pile of unpaid bills. 2 unsalaried, voluntary, volunteer, honorary, US dollar-a-year: On retirement, she took an unpaid job with Oxfam.
unpopular adj. out of favour, in bad odour, unliked, disliked, shunned, avoided, snubbed, ignored, unsought after, unaccepted, unwanted, rejected, unwelcome, undesirable; unloved, friendless: New taxes are always unpopular. James had always been an unpopular boy at school.
unprofessional adj. 1 unbecoming, improper, unethical, unprincipled, unseemly, undignified, unfitting, unbefitting, unworthy, unscholarly, negligent, lax: The Medical Association is quick to act against doctors whose conduct might be judged unprofessional. 2 amateurish, amateur, inexpert, inexperienced, untrained, untutored, unschooled, incompetent, unskilled, unskilful, inferior, second-rate, inefficient, poor, shoddy, low-quality, sloppy: It was an astonishingly unprofessional way to audit accounts. 3 non-technical, unspecialized, non-specialist, lay, everyday, ordinary, plain (English), understandable: What does all that gobbledegook mean when translated into unprofessional language?
unquenchable adj. insatiable, unslakeable or unslakable, unsatisfiable; inextinguishable, unsuppressible, irrepressible, indestructible: She had an unquenchable thirst for knowledge. Those principles have kindled an unquenchable fire in the hearts of the oppressed.
unreasonable adj. 1 irrational, illogical, unthinking, absurd, foolish, senseless, nonsensical, mindless, brainless, thoughtless, silly, mad, crazy, insane, idiotic, moronic, imbecilic, stupid, fatuous, ridiculous, ludicrous, laughable, preposterous, far-fetched, short-sighted, unperceptive, unperceiving, undiscerning, myopic, blind: Some people have an unreasonable aversion to anything scientific. Is it unreasonable to expect you to spend a little time with your mother? 2 excessive, outrageous, exorbitant, extravagant, immoderate, extortionate, inordinate, unconscionable, unjust, unwarranted, inequitable, unfair, unequal, improper, unjustified, unjustifiable, uncalled-for: The new tax puts an unreasonable demand on those with lower incomes. 3 inappropriate, unapt or inapt, unsuitable, unbefitting, impractical, unrealistic: His conduct was quite unreasonable for a man of the cloth.
unrepentant adj. unrepenting, unremorseful, impenitent, unapologetic, unregretful, unashamed, unembarrassed, unselfconscious, remorseless, unreformed, unrehabilitated, unregenerate, recidivist or recidivistic or recidivous: They were quite unrepentant, though they had seen for themselves the harm they had done.
unsatisfactory adj. insufficient, inadequate, inferior, poor, unacceptable, displeasing, disappointing, unworthy, inappropriate, deficient, weak, wanting, lacking, unsuitable, imperfect, flawed, defective, faulty: The report was unsatisfactory in that it failed to meet the committee's demands. Why put up with unsatisfactory workmanship?
unseasonable adj. unsuitable, inopportune, inappropriate, untimely, ill-timed, inexpedient: Unseasonable frosts in April caused severe damage to the flower buds.
unsettling adj. unnerving, upsetting, disturbing, perturbing, discomfiting, disconcerting: Sorry for being a wet blanket, but I have had some unsettling news from home.
unsophisticated adj. 1 nave, inexperienced, simple, childlike, unworldly, innocent, ingenuous, artless, guileless: Is the unsophisticated consumer sufficiently protected against unscrupulous traders? 2 simple, plain, uncomplicated, undetailed, uninvolved, unrefined: The computers of twenty years ago were unsophisticated compared with those of today.
unsuccessful adj. 1 unfortunate, unavailing, vain, abortive, useless, bootless, fruitless, unfruitful, unproductive, ineffective, ineffectual, inefficacious, worthless, unprofitable, sterile: We made an unsuccessful attempt to regain control of the company. 2 unlucky, hapless, unfortunate, luckless, defeated, beaten, jinxed, cursed, foiled, frustrated, balked: Trevor complained that he had been unsuccessful in business all his life.
untamed adj. undomesticated, wild, unbroken, unsubdued, uncontrollable, savage, fierce, feral, ferocious: In the story, the wolf boy behaves like an untamed beast.
unthinking adj. 1 thoughtless, mindless, undiscriminating, unconsidered, unwitting, unreflecting, unthoughtful, irrational, unreasonable, illogical, unperceptive, unperceiving, undiscerning, witless, brainless, foolish, senseless, nonsensical, rash, stupid, silly, mad, crazy, insane, idiotic, moronic, imbecilic, hasty, short-sighted: It was unthinking of me to ask her mother to go out to dinner with us. 2 inconsiderate, impolite, tactless, rude, thoughtless, undiplomatic, discourteous, uncivil, imprudent, unwise, indiscreet, neglectful: On the other hand, it would have been unthinking of me not to ask her mother.
untoward adj. 1 adverse, unfavourable, unpropitious, discouraging, inopportune, unpromising, bleak, inauspicious, bad, unfortunate: The rainstorm created untoward conditions, causing the river to rise dangerously. 2 unbecoming, unfitting, awkward, inappropriate, unapt, unsuitable, improper, impolite, rude, boorish, ungentlemanly, unladylike, indecorous, indelicate, unwarranted, uncalled-for, unrefined, unseemly, unwise, imprudent, undiplomatic, tactless, untactful, ill-conceived, silly, foolish, stupid, ill-timed, vexatious, vexing, irritating, annoying: Charles made some untoward remark about the size of Sandra's feet.
unusual adj. uncommon, exceptional, atypical, untypical, different, unexpected, singular, out of the ordinary, extraordinary, odd, peculiar, curious, bizarre, strange, queer, remarkable, unique, freakish, unprecedented, unconventional, unorthodox, Slang off-the-wall: It takes an unusual person to be as charitable as Jean. Don't you agree that an egg-laying mammal is a bit unusual?
unwary adj. heedless, careless, hasty, incautious, unguarded, imprudent, rash, foolhardy, reckless, thoughtless, indiscreet, unthinking, mindless, unwise: Many perils await the unwary traveller. It was unwary of you not to lock the doors and windows.
unwieldy adj. awkward, clumsy, bulky, oversized, cumbersome, ungainly, unmanageable, unhandy, unmanoeuvrable: The huge oil tankers, though economical, often proved unwieldy in the ports they visited.
upbringing n. rearing, raising, training, education, cultivation, nurture, breeding: The way one behaves through life is really a matter of upbringing.
upper adj. 1 higher (up), loftier, topmost, more elevated, uppermost: Air is less dense in the upper parts of the atmosphere. Our flat is on an upper floor. Her best notes are sung in the upper register. 2 higher, upland, more elevated; (more) northerly, northern: We visited the cataracts on the upper reaches of the Nile. We spent the holiday in upper Canada. 3 later, more recent: These strata were laid down in the Upper Cretaceous period. 4 upper case. capital letter(s), capital(s), majuscule (letters or characters): The heading ought to be in upper case. 5 upper crust. upper class, lite, aristocrats, nobles, blue bloods, wealthy, US Four Hundred: Gregory thinks of himself as a member of the upper crust and won't associate with us. 6 upper hand. advantage, control, authority, power, sway, superiority, supremacy, command, dominance, ascendancy, Colloq edge: Purvis kowtows to whoever has the upper hand. --n. 7 on (one's) uppers. poor, indigent, destitute, poverty-stricken, Colloq broke: Stanley has been on his uppers since losing his job.
upright adj. 1 erect, perpendicular, vertical, on end, straight up and down, plumb, stand-up, standing up, Brit upstanding: Few upright columns of the Greek temple remained. 2 moral, principled, high-minded, ethical, virtuous, upstanding, straight, righteous, straightforward, honourable, honest, just, trustworthy, unimpeachable, uncorrupt(ed), incorruptible, decent, good: David had long been an upright member of the church council. --n. 3 post, pole, column, vertical, perpendicular: We need another upright to support the floor over here. --adv. 4 perpendicularly, vertically, upward(s), straight up (and down): The javelin was sticking upright out of the ground. 5 right side up: Miraculously, the platter with the roast on it landed upright on the floor.
uproot v. 1 transfer, transplant, move, displace; exile, banish: Finney has been uprooted five times in his career with the firm. 2 deracinate, extirpate, root out, dig out, pluck out, tear out; destroy, demolish, ruin, eradicate, annihilate, kill, ruin, devastate, ravage: Thousands of trees were uprooted by the hurricane.
uptake n. comprehension, understanding, apprehension, grasp, perception, insight, perspicaciousness, perspicacity, perceptiveness, sensitivity: Billie was very quick on the uptake, and knew immediately what the man was after.
urinate v. pass or make water, Technical micturate; Babytalk (make a) wee, (go) wee-wee, (have a or US also take a) pee, (make) pee-pee, do number one, tinkle, piddle; Euphemistic go to the men's or ladies' (room), go to the lavatory, excuse (oneself), wash (one's) hands, go to the bathroom, go to the powder-room; Mincing go to the little boys' or girls' room; Colloq Brit spend a penny, go to the loo, Slang (take or have a) piss, Brit have a or go for a slash: One symptom of cystitis is pain when urinating.usage n. 1 use, custom, habit, practice, routine, convention, form, tradition: British usage reflects decreasing use of the subjunctive mood. 2 treatment, use, management, handling, operation, manipulation: It would appear that the car has been subjected to some rough usage.
usefulness n. utility, applicability, practicability, purpose, purposefulness, point, practicality, benefit, advantage, expediency, profit, profitability, value, gain, help, fruitfulness, effectiveness, worth: I never could see the usefulness of all the forms one has to fill in.
usual adj. same, customary, habitual, accustomed, familiar, well-known, common, everyday, established, traditional, set, time-honoured, old, conventional, workaday, stock, wonted, regular, ordinary, normal, expected, routine, typical, run-of-the-mill, stereotypic(al), hackneyed, trite, prosaic, worn out, shop-worn, predictable, unexceptional, unoriginal, unremarkable, unimaginative: The usual answer I get is 'Why?' I missed my usual train this morning. They still sing the usual drinking songs.
vacant adj. 1 empty, void, hollow, unoccupied, untenanted, uninhabited, abandoned, deserted: The house remained vacant all summer. 2 blank, expressionless, deadpan, empty, vacuous, dull, absent-minded, inane, uncomprehending, fatuous, unaware: After the accident, she would just sit, for hours on end, with a vacant look on her face. 3 unoccupied, free, unused, unutilized, spare, extra, idle, unfilled, unengaged, unspoken for: The doctor has a vacant hour tomorrow at ten and could see you then.
vague adj. 1 indefinite, indistinct, imprecise, inexact, unclear, confused, unspecified or non-specified, general, generalized, unspecific or non-specific, inexplicit or unexplicit, ill-defined, hazy, fuzzy, ambiguous, obscure, amorphous; shapeless, blurred, blurry, filmy, dim, shadowy, veiled, bleary, foggy, misty, cloudy, clouded, hardly or barely distinguishable or discernible: I have only a vague recollection of our having met. She must have had a vague idea of your intentions. Leon could almost make out the vague shape of an approaching figure. 2 undetermined, indeterminate, unfixed, indefinite, inexact, unspecified or non-specified, unspecific or non-specific, ambiguous, doubtful, in doubt, uncertain, equivocal, ambiguous: For security reasons, her time of arrival was left vague. 3 veiled, concealed, hidden, shrouded, obscure, ill-defined, unspecific or non-specific, inexplicit or unexplicit, ambiguous: There had been a vague threat of kidnapping, which should not have been ignored. 4 subliminal, subconscious, indefinable, unexplained: I had a vague sensation of being followed. 5 indefinite, ambiguous, wishy-washy, undecided, indecisive, irresolute, vacillating, wavering, inconstant, unsettled, uncertain, nebulous, up in the air: Leonore is vague about her plans to run for re-election. 6 vacant, empty, blank, expressionless, empty, vacuous, dull; puzzled: By their vague expressions I could see they hadn't understood a word.
vanity n. 1 conceit, conceitedness, egotism, narcissism, arrogance, cockiness, self-importance, vainglory, haughtiness, pride, self-admiration, self-worship, Colloq swell-headedness, big-headedness: It is disgraceful what some people do to satisfy their vanity. 2 vainness, emptiness, hollowness, worthlessness, futility, unreality, bootlessness, pointlessness, uselessness, folly, vapidity, silliness, vacuousness, vacuity, foolishness, fatuity, frivolousness: The vanity of trying to complete the book in a year must be obvious by now.
variance n. 1 variation, difference, disparity, discrepancy, disagreement, deviation, inconsistency, divergence, incongruity: The monitor takes account of minute variance in blood pressure. 2 disagreement, misunderstanding, discord, difference (of opinion), dissension, contention, dispute, dissent, controversy, quarrel, conflict, argument, debate, lack of harmony, falling out, schism, rift: There has never been any variance between us about the disciplining of the children. 3 at variance. in dispute, in disagreement, quarrelling, in contention, in conflict: The workforce was at variance with management in the matter of day care.
variegated adj. multicolour(ed), particolour(ed), varicoloured, many-coloured, motley, pied, piebald, brindled, mottled, polychrome, polychromatic; nacreous, changeant, opalescent, opaline: Plants with variegated foliage always add interest to a garden.
vast adj. infinite, unlimited, boundless, limitless, unbounded, interminable, endless, never-ending, inexhaustible, indeterminate, immeasurable, incalculable, measureless; immense, enormous, huge, tremendous, great, prodigious, stupendous, gigantic, massive, voluminous, capacious, colossal, monumental, mammoth, jumbo, elephantine, behemoth, Cyclopean, Brobdingnagian, titanic, Literary vasty, Colloq ginormous, humongous: It is difficult to comprehend the vast distances of space. There is a vast difference between the climates of California and the Midwest.
veiled adj. concealed, hidden, masked, obscure, unrevealed, covert, disguised, secret, sub rosa, subtle: There seemed to be a veiled threat in the way he said goodbye.
vendetta n. (blood) feud, quarrel, dispute, conflict, rivalry, enmity, bitterness, hatred, ill will, bad blood: Fifty years after leaving Palermo, the vendetta between their families still persisted.
veneration n. respect, honour, esteem, reverence, deference, homage, devotion, worship, admiration, adoration, idolization, awe: Their veneration for their hero turned to contempt when his past was revealed.
venom n. 1 poison, toxin: The snakes are 'milked' of their venom, which is collected for research in antitoxins and pharmaceuticals. 2 malice, maliciousness, malevolence, ill will, malignity, animosity, hate, hatred, hostility, antagonism, spite, spitefulness, spleen, rancour, bitterness, embitteredness, gall, poison, poisonousness, virulence: Vinnie was totally unprepared for the venom of the attack.
venturesome adj. 1 daring, bold, intrepid, adventurous, courageous, plucky, adventuresome, audacious, fearless, doughty, brave, spirited: Henderson felt that he was being truly venturesome by sailing single-handed round the Isle of Wight. 2 risky, rash, reckless, sporting, game, daredevil: Taking one's family into the American West was truly a venturesome undertaking - even in the 20th century.
verge v. incline, lean, tend, extend, stretch, turn; approach, draw, move: The road verges southwards after the bridge.
versatile adj. 1 adaptable, resourceful, all-round, all-purpose, many-sided, multi-purpose, multifaceted, flexible, adjustable, protean, dexterous, handy, facile: Everett is a versatile painter who works in many media and styles. 2 variable, changeable, protean, changing, flexible, fluctuating: Any versatile organization should be able to accommodate staff losses.
verve n. spirit, vivacity, vivaciousness, vitality, life, liveliness, animation, sparkle, energy, vigour, exuberance, briskness, brio, esprit, lan, dash, flair, panache, flourish, enthusiasm, zeal, zest, gusto, Colloq pizazz, zip, vim, get-up-and-go, zing, oomph: Helen's verve adds much to this production of Carmen .
vestigial adj. imperfect, undeveloped, underdeveloped, rudimentary, incomplete: Anatomists regard the coccyx in man and apes as a vestigial tail.
viable adj. sustainable, supportable, sensible, reasonable, practical, practicable, applicable, workable, feasible, possible: We have three days to come up with a viable plan for continuing the research project.
vice n. 1 immorality, corruption, evil, badness, depravity, degradation, degeneracy, iniquity, villainy, venality, evil-doing, wickedness, profligacy, sin, sinfulness, transgression: She described the town as a den of indecency, exhibitionism, and vice. 2 flaw, defect, fault, imperfection, blemish, shortcoming, failing, weakness, frailty, foible, infirmity, deficiency: Rejection without due consideration is a prejudicial vice of editors.
vicissitude n. 1 change, mutation, alteration, changeability, mutability, variation, variability, variety, alternation, flux, fluctuation, unpredictability: Who seeks stability in life often encounters its vicissitude. 2 vicissitudes. fluctuations, changes, variations, contrasts, inconstancy, unpredictability, uncertainties, Colloq ups and downs, flukiness: His success is amazing in light of the vicissitudes he survived.
victorious adj. triumphant, successful: Caesar was victorious over the Gauls.
viewpoint n. standpoint, (point of) view, attitude, angle, slant, position, stance, vantage point, perspective, frame of reference, way of thinking, context: From our viewpoint, widening the road only encourages speeding.
vigorously adv. energetically, actively, vivaciously, dynamically, briskly, spiritedly, robustly, strongly, hardily, heartily, lustily, stalwartly, eagerly, with might and main, with a vengeance, strenuously, Colloq like mad, like crazy, hammer and tongs: It may not be good for you to exercise vigorously every day.
villain n. wretch, evil-doer, criminal, miscreant, blackguard, rogue, rascal, cad, scallywag or scalawag, malefactor, scoundrel, dog, cur, viper, reptile, snake in the grass, rat, Archaic rapscallion, Literary knave, caitiff, Colloq Brit bounder, blighter, Slang bastard, son of a bitch, Brit rotter, US SOB or sob (= 'son of a bitch'): The villain of the film is a smooth-talking charmer who swindles old ladies out of their savings.
vintage n. 1 year, crop, harvest, origin, generation: Which vintage is the better for Bordeaux, 1949 or 1954? --adj. 2 quality, choice, superior, better, good, select, best, classic; aged, seasoned, mature(d), mellow(ed): Mark has become an expert in vintage wines. 3 antiquated, old-fashioned, old-fogyish or old-fogeyish, antique, bygone, old-time, collector or collector's, Colloq over the hill: Claud used to drive his vintage car to work every day.
violent adj. 1 wild, physical, destructive, vehement, brutal, brutish, beastly, nasty, cruel, mean, barbarous, inhuman, savage, fierce, ferocious, furious, frenzied, uncontrollable, untamed, ungovernable, raging, raving, irrational, insane, crazed, Colloq fit to be tied: Tony turned into a violent maniac when he suspected her of seeing another man. 2 harmful, injurious, damaging, detrimental, destructive, deleterious, catastrophic, cataclysmic, ruinous, devastating: This was the most violent earthquake to hit Mexico in recorded history. 3 acute, serious, severe, extreme, harsh, trenchant, virulent, intense, energetic, forceful, vehement, passionate, impetuous,tempestuous: The proceedings were interrupted by an outburst of violent abuse from the public gallery.
virtuosity n. (technical) skill, technique, ability, expertise, mastery, excellence, brilliance, craftsmanship, craft, flair, dash, lan, clat, panache, pyrotechnics, showmanship, show, staginess, Colloq razzle-dazzle: The concerto was performed with signal virtuosity but little imagination or understanding.
visible adj. 1 seeable, perceivable, perceptible, discernible, detectable, discoverable, noticeable, unmistakable or unmistakeable, clear, obvious, observable; visual: The visible part of the energy spectrum is relatively small. The entrance holes to their burrows were clearly visible. 2 obvious, conspicuous, evident, apparent, prominent, manifest, distinct, patent, well-defined, identifiable: The consequences of the Act of Union of 1707 are still visible in Scotland today.
visitation n. 1 staying, calling, visiting, sojourning, stopping (over): The father has visitation rights to his children on weekends. 2 affliction, ordeal, trial, punishment, disaster, catastrophe, cataclysm, calamity, tragedy, curse, scourge, blight, plague, pestilence: In the story, the tyrant succumbed finally to a visitation from the Almighty.
vitalize v. stimulate, activate, arouse, vivify, animate, awaken, inspirit, invigorate, enliven, inspire, revive, rejuvenate, innervate, energize, fortify, reinvigorate, renew, refresh, charge (up): The tonic vitalized him to the point where he felt young again.
vivacious adj. lively, spirited, sprightly, energetic, animated, brisk, ebullient, effervescent, bubbly, gay, cheerful, happy, blithe, jaunty, light-hearted, sunny, merry, high-spirited, buoyant, chipper, Colloq up, peppy, full of pep, full of beans, zippy: Had he not gone on the cruise, Michael would never have met the vivacious redhead who became his bride.
voice n. 1 speech, utterance, articulation, words, expression: Keith found it difficult to give voice to his innermost thoughts. 2 share, part, vote, participation, say, decision, option, turn, chance: As a junior member of the board, Nicholas had no voice in major decisions. 3 spokesman, spokeswoman, spokesperson, representative, agent, agency, instrument; organ, medium, vehicle, forum, publication: Throughout his time in government, Logan had served as the voice of the miners. The Clarion views itself as the voice of all the people, though it actually represents only a few. --v. 4 express, utter, articulate, enunciate, present, verbalize, put into words, give utterance or voice or expression or vent to, communicate, convey, declare, assert, make known, reveal, disclose, raise, bring up, air: I must voice my misgivings about the step you are planning to take.
volley n. 1 salvo, bombardment, barrage, cannonade, fusillade, discharge, hail, shower: A volley of shot struck the tower, which collapsed. 2 outpouring, torrent, flood, deluge, inundation, burst, storm, outbreak: The cracks of the muleteer's whip were accompanied by a volley of abuse. 3 give and take, to-and-fro, interaction, reciprocity, exchange, volleying, crossfire, badinage, bantering: Samuel enjoyed the volley of haggling that accompanied every sale.
voluntarily adv. freely, willingly, spontaneously, of (one's) own free will, on (one's) own (initiative or recognizance or responsibility), without prompting, without being prompted or asked, gratis, gratuitously; by choice, intentionally, purposely, on purpose, deliberately: Some of the students spent their summer vacation voluntarily helping the needy.
voracious adj. 1 insatiable, gluttonous, ravenous, ravening, rapacious, piggish, hoggish, cormorant, predacious, edacious, devouring, greedy, avaricious, esurient, uncontrollable, uncontrolled, unquenchable, enormous, prodigious, US cormorant: Is there no satisfying the man's voracious appetite? 2 thirsty, hungry, desirous, avid, eager, zealous, enthusiastic, fervent, fervid, ardent, earnest, passionate, devoted: It was becoming difficult to satisfy the public's voracious demand for gossip.
vow v. 1 swear, pledge, promise, assure, state, declare, give (one's) (solemn) word (of honour): I vowed to return after the war to care for those who had helped me escape. --n. 2 oath, pledge, promise, agreement; (solemn) word (of honour): She will keep her vow, you may be certain. vulgar adj. 1 indelicate, boorish, uncultured, uncultivated, low, unrefined, common, plebeian, inelegant, unladylike, ungentlemanly, gauche, uncouth, coarse, tasteless, ostentatious, ignoble, low-class, Colloq flash: The boss's wife was known for her vulgar behaviour at the dinner table. 2 tasteless, indelicate, indecent, rude, crude, naughty, dirty, improper, off colour, risqu, ribald, blue, indecorous, nasty, offensive, gross, lustful, obscene, lewd, lascivious, licentious, smutty, salacious, scatological, filthy, pornographic, Slang US raunchy: He made a lot of money through publishing vulgar magazines and videos. 3 popular, vernacular, ordinary, everyday, general, homespun, commonplace, household, average: Dictionaries should record the vulgar language as well as the literary.
wade v. 1 ford, cross, traverse, walk, make one's way: The water is only knee-deep, and you can wade across. 2 paddle, play, splash: There is a shallow pool where the little children can wade. 3 wade in or into. a enter, get in (or into), join (in): When the fight began, Patrick waded in with arms flailing. b attack, approach, get or set to work, plunge or dive into: I have to wade into an enormous pile of mail that accumulated while I was away. 4 wade through. plough through, work (one's) way through, hammer or pound away at, plod through, peg away at: You really have to wade through that entire book to write your report.
wag n. comedian, wit, punster, pundit, joker, jester, comic, jokester, droll, merry andrew, clown, Colloq card: A wag said that tailors were like storks - known for their big bills.
waive v. 1 give up, relinquish, renounce, resign, forsake, forgo, cede, sign away, surrender, abandon, yield, dispense with: I waived my right to the inheritance in favour of my daughters. 2 set or put aside, except, ignore, disregard, overlook, abandon, defer, postpone: We are happy to waive the rules in your case, madam.
wakeful adj. 1 awake, sleepless, waking, unsleeping, restless, restive, insomniac: The children were wakeful the entire night in anticipation of a visit from Santa Claus. 2 watchful, (on the) alert, on the qui vive, sharp, attentive, vigilant, wary, cautious, observant, heedful, on the lookout: We remained wakeful, alert to any footstep.
wallow v. 1 roll or loll about or around, welter, writhe, tumble, splash or plash: He enjoys watching the pigs wallowing in the mud. 2 Usually, wallow in. luxuriate in, bask in, revel in, glory in, indulge (oneself) in, give (oneself) up to, succumb to, take to, appreciate, fancy, enjoy, like, love, savour, Slang get a kick or a bang or a boot from or out of: Now that Gabriel is a big rock star, he simply wallows in all the attention he is getting. 3 stumble, stagger, lurch, flounder, teeter, totter, falter, pitch: Without its engines, the ship was lifted skyward by a wave one moment only to wallow in a trough the next.
wane v. 1 decrease, diminish, grow less, lessen, decline, die out, abate, ebb, subside, fade (away), dim, taper off, peter out, wind down, weaken: The waning moon cast its pale light on the dying knight. As his strength waned he could no longer lift his sword. 2 draw to a close, end, terminate: The day waned into a gloomy evening. --n. 3 decrease, diminution, lessening, decline, abatement, ebb, subsidence, fading, tapering off, petering out, winding down, weakening, deterioration, degeneration: The 1970s saw the wane in popularity of large, gas-guzzling cars. 4 on the wane. on the decrease or decline or ebb, diminishing, decreasing, declining, abating, subsiding, fading, tapering off, petering out, winding down, weakening, deteriorating, degenerating: The economy is recovering, and inflation is on the wane. Since that latest illness, my energy has been on the wane.
wanton adj. 1 immoral, dissolute, profligate, dissipated, depraved, loose, promiscuous, lustful, licentious, lecherous, wild, libidinous, lewd, lascivious, unchaste: She is a wanton hussy who is no better than she ought to be. 2 abandoned, unrestrained, undisciplined, ungoverned, ungovernable, unmanageable, outrageous, immoderate, intemperate, untempered: It is not the boy's fault, it is the wanton company he keeps. 3 reckless, rash, uncaring, lavish, extravagant, wilful, heedless, irresponsible, careless: This situation arises from the parents' wanton disregard for their children's moral training. 4 wicked, evil, malevolent, malicious, merciless, inhumane, vicious, cruel, violent, unjustified, unprovoked, uncalled-for, purposeless, motiveless, unjustifiable, arbitrary, gratuitous: We were subject to wanton attacks by the hill people. --n. 5 vamp, strumpet, whore, harlot, loose woman, prostitute, voluptuary, slut, trollop, Jezebel, Colloq tart, Slang hooker, working girl, call-girl: Who invited that wanton, with her tight-fitting, shamelessly low-cut dress?
warehouse n. storehouse, store, storeroom, depository, stockroom, depot, go-down: The books are kept in a warehouse and shipped to customers as needed.
warm-blooded adj. 1 Technical homoeothermic or homoeothermal or homoiothermic or homoiothermal or homeothermic or homeothermal: Birds and mammals are warm-blooded, reptiles and fish are cold-blooded. 2 passionate, ardent, fervid, hot-blooded, impetuous, Colloq randy: He tried to excuse his behaviour towards her by saying that he was just a normal, warm-blooded man.
warning n. 1 caution, admonition, advice, counsel, caveat, word (to the wise), tip, notification, notice, threat; lesson, example: Cyril never took seriously his doctor's warning about his cholesterol level. Let that be a warning to you not to drink and drive. 2 omen, sign, signal, indication, augury, foretoken, portent, foreshadowing, forewarning, prophecy: Sailors take that kind of sky and a falling barometer as warning of a hurricane.
wary adj. cautious, careful, on (one's) guard, circumspect, prudent, apprehensive, chary, watchful, vigilant, on the qui vive, heedful, observant, on (one's) toes, Colloq cagey, Slang leery (of): Phoebe is wary of going out with someone she doesn't know.
washout n. failure, disaster, dbcle, (total) loss, fiasco, disappointment, Colloq flop, dud, Brit damp squib, US lead balloon: His attempts to revive the hula-hoop craze were a washout.
wastrel n. 1 spendthrift, profligate, waster, prodigal, big spender, squanderer: That wastrel went through his inheritance in a year. 2 idler, layabout, malingerer, loafer, shirker, good-for-nothing, ne'er-do-well, Chiefly Brit drone, Slang Brit skiver: The workhouse is the place for wastrels like you!
water-colour n. aquarelle: John's water-colours sell as fast as he paints them.
way n. 1 manner, method, mode, fashion, means, system, course (of action), procedure, approach, scheme, technique, practice, modus operandi, Colloq MO (= 'modus operandi'): That's no way to talk to your mother! We have ways of making you talk. Is that any way to treat a lady?! It's the wrong way to deal with the problem. 2 manner, spirit, feeling, sense, character, approach, personality, temperament, disposition, modus vivendi (= 'lifestyle'), nature, technique, style, conduct, habit, behaviour pattern, custom: He has such a pleasant way about him. Lucinda certainly has a way with children and dogs. You city people may not approve of our down-to-earth country ways. 3 path, road, street, avenue, course, route, trail, direction: Show me the way to go home. The way to the village lies through dark woods. 4 distance; route, trail, course, road: You've come a long way since we last met. 5 progress, passage, advance, headway; speed, velocity, motion, (forward) movement: We made our way to the front of the crowd. Who has the right of way at the crossing? The tide was too strong for us to get any way on. 6 aspect, respect, particular, detail, point, sense, feature: In certain ways, you remind me of Attila the Hun. 7 clearance, pathway, avenue, scope, freedom, opportunity: When you hear a siren, drive to the side and give way. Make way for the Lord High Executioner! 8 condition, situation: She prefers the prissy 'in a family way' to the straightforward 'pregnant' and the vulgar 'have a bun in the oven'. I saw Luke yesterday and he was really in a bad way. 9 by the way. incidentally, moreover, by the by, parenthetically: By the way, have I told you how beautiful you look tonight? 10 by way of. a via, through, by means of: We drove from London to Oxford by way of Reading. b (functioning) as, in (the) way of, in the capacity of, equivalent to, more or less, something like: Richard is by way of being an expert on eccentric behaviour. 11 give way. a collapse, break (down), fail, cave in, fall (down), crumble, crumple, disintegrate, go to pieces: The cable gave way, causing the bridge to collapse. b yield, surrender, retreat, concede, withdraw, accede, make concessions, acquiesce, acknowledge: The trouble is that they both think they are in the right and neither will give way. 12 under way. proceeding, progressing, on the move, moving, advancing, going, begun, started, in progress, operating, functioning, at work, US in work, Colloq in the works, US in the pipeline: Once under way, it takes the ship three days to make the crossing. Plans are under way to reclaim the slum area for a park.
weaken v. 1 debilitate, enfeeble, enervate, emasculate, mitigate, moderate, dilute, deplete, diminish, lessen, depress, lower, reduce, sap, undermine, exhaust, impoverish: The continuous torture helped to weaken Errol's resolve. 2 fade, dwindle, tire, droop, sag, fail, give way, crumble, flag: My determination weakened when I saw what had happened to the children. 3 give in, relent, acquiesce, give way, yield, accede, consent, agree, assent, soften, bend, ease up, let up, ease off, relax: If you ask very politely, she might weaken and allow you to go out and play. 4 water (down), dilute, thin (out): Adding the water so weakened the soup that it tasted like dishwater.
wealthy adj. rich, affluent, well off, prosperous, well-to-do, opulent, comfortable, moneyed, Colloq in the money, on Easy Street, flush, well-heeled, in clover, Slang loaded, stinking (rich), filthy rich, quids in, rolling in it: Bill has a wealthy aunt who sends him a little something now and then.
weave v. 1 loom; braid, plait, entwine, intertwine, interlace, interweave, knit (together): These fabrics were woven by hand. Weave these leather strands together to make a belt. 2 blend, combine, fuse, merge, unite, intermingle, mesh, splice, dovetail, join: The threads of their lives are inextricably woven together. 3 construct, make, contrive, build, create, fabricate, compose, spin, design: Oh, what a tangled web we weave When first we practise to deceive! 4 zigzag, criss-cross, wend or make (one's) way, dodge, bob and weave, shift: Look at that motor cyclist weaving in and out of the traffic! 5 get weaving. get started, get a move on, hurry (up), start, Colloq shake a leg, Brit get or pull (one's) finger out, Chiefly US get a wiggle on: If you're going to get to work on time, you'd best get weaving.
wedding n. 1 marriage (ceremony), wedding ceremony, nuptials; confarreation: Our son's wedding was attended by members of the royal family. 2 combining, combination, uniting, union, joining, juncture, blending, blend, allying, alliance, associating, association, marrying, marriage, merging, merger, mingling, intermingling, commingling, coalescing, coalescence, mixing, mixture, intermixing, amalgamating, amalgamation, compounding, compound, alloying, alloy, fusing, fusion, homogenizing, homogenization: Through her wedding of vision to observation she has produced some truly remarkable paintings.
weigh v. 1 Sometimes, weigh in at or out at. Colloq tip the scales at: The sailboard weighed in at 250 pounds. I weigh more than I should. 2 consider, ponder, contemplate, think on or over or about, mull over, turn over in the or (one's) mind, ruminate over, chew over, reflect on or upon, brood over, pore over, study, examine: After weighing the qualifications of the candidates, we voted for you. Weigh your words carefully before responding. 3 judge, estimate, assess, evaluate, value, determine: It is not easy to weigh each person's contribution to the effort. 4 Usually, weigh on or upon. lie heavy on, burden, depress, prey on, oppress, disturb, perturb, upset: Loneliness weighs heavily on Dave's widow. 5 matter, count, have (an) effect or influence, carry weight, be of value or account, Colloq cut any ice: Certain factors - like the sizes of the bribes - are likely to weigh heavily with the judges of this particular beauty contest. 6 weigh down. burden, overburden, load, overload, encumber, tax, overtax, strain, trouble, worry, depress, oppress: He's been weighed down by financial worries since losing his job.
weirdo n. eccentric, madman, madwoman, lunatic, psychotic, Colloq crazy, weirdie, nutcase, oddball, queer fish, crank, Slang freak, loony, psycho, Brit nutter, US screwball, nut, kook: Why belong to a club whose members are weirdos who refuse to talk to one another?
well adv. 1 satisfactorily, sufficiently, adequately, agreeably, nicely, (well) enough, Colloq OK or okay: Alan is doing well these days. 2 successfully, famously, marvellously, wonderfully, fabulously, incredibly, splendidly, admirably, spectacularly, excellently, superbly: Barbara and David really get along well together. 3 articulately, understandably, expressively, correctly, accurately, properly, proficiently, effectively, artistically, poetically; grammatically: Henry will make a good announcer because he speaks well. 4 comfortably, luxuriously, prosperously, extravagantly, showily, pretentiously, ostentatiously, sumptuously, grandly, opulently: How can Rita live so well with no visible income? Living well is the best revenge. 5 graciously, kindly, highly, favourably, glowingly, approvingly, warmly, genially, cordially, amiably, kind-heartedly, warm-heartedly, affectionately, lovingly: Rudolph has always spoken well of you, Aileen. 6 skilfully, expertly, adeptly, proficiently, ably: Does Anne play well enough to compete professionally? Paul sings well. 7 far, by a long way, immeasurably, (very) much; far and away, definitely, positively, obviously, clearly, plainly, manifestly, evidently, unquestionably, decidedly, beyond (the shadow of a) doubt, Colloq by a long chalk: Keep well away from the fuel tank before lighting that cigarette. She is well beyond the beginner stage. This painting is well worth what you paid. 8 good-naturedly, equably, coolly, serenely, calmly, soberly, unexcitedly, sedately: Burt took the bad news about his car very well. 9 likely, probably, in all probability, doubtlessly, without doubt, not unexpectedly, indeed: He might well say he needs no help. 10 easily, without difficulty: Though he gave her the money, he could not well spare it. 11 completely, entirely, wholly: Before she could well finish her sentence, he was out of the house. 12 thoroughly (cooked), (cooked) through and through, completely (cooked): He likes his roast beef well done. 13 intimately, closely, familiarly, personally; thoroughly, profoundly, soundly, fully: Do you know Boris well? I learnt my lesson well. 14 fairly, justly, suitably, properly, adequately, reasonably, fully, generously, amply: James is well paid for his work. 15 happily, mercifully, fortunately, luckily: After the divorce, both said they were well rid of each other. --adj. 16 healthy, fit, hale, robust, vigorous, hearty, in fine or good fettle, Colloq in good shape: Wendy felt really well after her holiday. 17 satisfactory, pleasing, agreeable, good, right, all right, fine, proper, OK or okay: When he phoned the office, they told him all was well.
well-bred adj. well brought up, well-mannered, polite, decorous, mannerly, refined, courteous, cultivated, polished, cultured, gentlemanly, ladylike, elegant, suave, urbane, sophisticated, gracious, courtly, genteel, gallant, chivalrous: Jane prefers bikers to the well-bred gentlemen her mother selects for her.
well-informed adj. knowledgeable, learned, well-read, well-versed, well-educated, literate, educated, Colloq in the know, wise, US vibrating on the right frequency, Slang hip or hep: With access to all the media, what excuse have you for not being well-informed?
well-timed adj. timely, seasonable, opportune, auspicious, favourable, advantageous, beneficial: Tax incentives gave a well-timed boost to the economy.
wet adj. 1 moist, moistened, damp, dampened, soaked, soaking, sopping, wringing, dripping, sodden, soppy, saturated, drenched: During the rainy season, the ground is far too wet for planting. 2 rainy, raining, teeming, pouring, drizzling, showery: We have had a very wet spring this year. 3 feeble, weak, irresolute, effet, namby-pamby, foolish, ineffectual, ineffective, spineless, timorous, cowardly: She considered some of her colleagues too wet to take the tough action needed. --n. 4 moisture, water, wetness, dampness, damp, humidity, liquid: The wet stood out on his forehead. 5 rain, wetness, mist, dew, fog, damp, humidity: Come in out of the wet, and warm yourself by the fire. 6 milksop, softie or softy, lightweight, Colloq drip, loser, Brit weed, Slang wimp, US weak sister: Why is he such a wet about standing up for his rights? wheedle v. coax, cajole, inveigle, charm, beguile, persuade, talk; butter up; Colloq con, sweet-talk: Irena always managed to wheedle someone into taking her dancing.
whimsical adj. 1 quaint, fey, fanciful, odd, curious, unusual, chimeric(al), queer, singular, peculiar, funny, fantastic(al), pixyish, playful, puckish, absurd, preposterous, Colloq offbeat: When Andrew's whimsical drawings caught on they were bought by greetings card makers. 2 capricious, erratic, eccentric, wavering, flighty, unsettled, fickle, mercurial, wavering, fluctuating, unpredictable, inconsistent, volatile, unsteady: The buses in our village run on what could best be termed a whimsical timetable.
whirlwind n. 1 waterspout, dust devil, cyclone, typhoon, anticyclone, hurricane, extra-tropical cyclone, tropical cyclone, Nontechnical tornado, Nautical white squall, Australian willy-willy, Colloq US whirly: A whole row of houses was destroyed in the whirlwind. --adj. 2 speedy, quick, swift, sudden, precipitous, lightning, headlong, hasty, rash, impetuous: It was one of those whirlwind romances that last till the wind dies down.
white adj. 1 snow-white, snowy, chalk-white, chalky, ivory, creamy, milky, milk-white, oyster-white, off-white; silver, hoary: Many buildings in the tropics are painted white. Do you believe that a person's hair can turn white overnight? 2 pale, pallid, pasty, wan, whey-faced, ashen, bloodless, drained, whitish, waxen, ghastly, ghostly, anaemic, dead white, deathly white, cadaverous, corpse-like: Her black dress contrasted starkly with her white complexion. 3 innocent, pure, unsullied, stainless, unblemished, spotless, immaculate, virginal, virtuous, undefiled, chaste: She came to you with white hands, which you have sought to dirty with your vicious accusations. 4 Caucasian, Caucasoid, light-skinned, fair-skinned, pale-complexioned: The American Indian was - and still is treated very unfairly by the White man.
wholehearted adj. devoted, dedicated, committed, earnest, sincere, unqualified, unmitigated, unreserved, complete, entire, unstinting, real, true, genuine, hearty, heartfelt, serious, enthusiastic, zealous, warm, fervent, ardent, spirited, eager, energetic: Once I agree to help, you can rely on my wholehearted support.
whopping adj. 1 huge, great, enormous, colossal, gigantic, immense, tremendous, prodigious, monstrous, thumping, mammoth, massive, Brobdingnagian: With that whopping Great Dane of yours in the kitchen there's no room to move about. 2 flagrant, outrageous, extravagant, terrible, awful: Jones tells such whopping lies I don't know when to believe him. wicked adj. 1 evil, bad, immoral, amoral, unprincipled, sinful, impious, irreligious, blasphemous, profane, sacrilegious, ungodly, godless, diabolic(al), satanic, Mephistophelian, demonic, demoniac(al), hellish, infernal, accursed, damnable, fiendish, ghoulish: How wicked must one be to murder one's own child? She has done many wicked things, but this was the worst. 2 depraved, dissolute, villainous, black-hearted, iniquitous, horrible, horrid, hideous, heinous, beastly, base, low, vile, debased, degenerate, perverse, perverted, corrupt, foul, offensive, abominable, disgraceful, shameful, dreadful, awful, gross, gruesome, grim, appalling, grisly, loathsome, lawless, unrepentant, unregenerate, incorrigible, criminal, felonious, rascally, knavish, terrible, egregious, execrable: The Deluge was regarded as divine vengeance on a wicked world. He was a wicked man, in league with the devil himself. 3 dirty, pornographic, filthy, erotic, obscene, lewd, offensive, indecent, prurient, smutty, rude, taboo, blue, coarse, bawdy, vulgar, salacious, licentious, nasty, X-rated, Colloq US raunchy: The townspeople took the wicked books and burnt them all. 4 vicious, beastly, savage, nasty, bad, violent, mean, cruel: Graham has a wicked temper. The boys were subjected to the most wicked treatment. 5 naughty, mischievous, impish, sly, devilish, rascally, roguish, scampish, puckish; vexatious, exasperating, annoying, irritating, irksome, trying, galling, bothersome: What trouble have those wicked children got themselves into now? It is wicked of you to make pig noises every time I mention Bertha. 6 foul, offensive, pernicious, baleful, mephitic, disgusting, revolting, sickening, repulsive, repellent, nauseous, repugnant, rotten, pestilential, noxious: That liniment the doctor prescribed has a wicked odour. 7 expert, ingenious, superior, superb, superlative, outstanding, masterful, masterly, skilful, deft, adept: That chap Gough plays a wicked game of tennis.
width n. 1 breadth, wideness, compass, broadness, span; diameter, calibre, bore; measure; Nautical beam: What is the standard width of railway track in this country? The width of the cannon-ball is three inches. 2 reach, scope, range, breadth, extent, extensiveness: There is an impressive width of choice at the restaurant.
wile n. Often, wiles. trick, stratagem, ruse, artifice, subterfuge, dodge, trap, snare, manoeuvre, ploy, contrivance, move, gambit, plot, scheme, machination, Colloq (little) game: You won't get far trying to work your wiles on me, young lady.
willingly adv. readily, happily, contentedly, gladly, cheerfully, amenably, agreeably, freely, passively, docilely, of (one's) own accord or free will, on (one's) own, ungrudgingly, by choice, voluntarily, unhesitatingly, nothing loath, eagerly, enthusiastically, zealously, avidly, Colloq at the drop of a hat: We did not coerce him in any way - he went along quite willingly. You can rely on Hubert to give willingly and generously to support any good cause.
wily adj. shrewd, cunning, crafty, sly, artful, guileful, clever, foxy, vulpine, disingenuous, shifty, scheming, plotting, calculating, designing, sharp, canny, deceitful, deceiving, deceptive, treacherous, perfidious, false, double-dealing, dishonest, underhand(ed), tricky, smooth, slick, slippery, oily, unctuous, Scots and No. Eng. pawky, Colloq cagey, crooked, two-timing, Slang chiefly Brit fly: Rats are wily and cunning, and have to be taken seriously.
windfall n. bonanza, godsend, stroke of (good) fortune, serendipitous find, boon, piece of (good) luck, jackpot, (lucky) strike: The sale of the house provided a windfall that saved them from imminent bankruptcy.
wintry adj. 1 hiemal, brumal, hibernal; icy, snowy, freezing, frozen, frosty, cold, frigid, bitter (cold), chilly, chilling, piercing, cutting, glacial, Siberian, arctic, hyperborean: It was cold and the sky was clear and wintry with premonitions of frost. 2 cold, frigid, chilly, cool, chilling, glacial: She got a very wintry reception from Dan's parents, who disliked the idea of their living together. 3 forbidding, bleak, dismal, cheerless, dreary, harsh, unfriendly, ugly, menacing, ominous, threatening, dark: His comment about her age evoked only a wintry look from Margot.
wise adj. 1 sage, sagacious, judicious, reasonable, commonsensical, prudent, sensible, insightful, sapient, understanding, rational, sound, clear-sighted, clear-headed, discerning, perspicacious, perspicuous, percipient, perceptive, intelligent, acute, astute, sharp, shrewd, crafty, clever, bright, quick-witted, smart, brilliant, long-headed, Colloq brainy: Among the wisest of men were Solomon, Confucius, Buddha, and, perhaps, Aristotle. 2 knowledgeable, learned, enlightened, informed, erudite; (well-)educated, knowing, well-read, well-versed, lettered, scholarly: We saw to it that they escaped, and the police were none the wiser. Wise heads prevailed at the college on what constituted worthwhile research. 3 well-advised, advisable, judicious, sensible, expedient, reasonable, strategic, tactful, tactical, prudent, politic, discreet, diplomatic, well-thought-out, well-considered, proper, fitting, appropriate, meet: Do you think it wise to punish the child so severely? 4 put wise (to). inform or advise or warn (of or about): If you must know how he found out, it was Myrna who put him wise. Did she also put him wise to where the money is hidden? 5 wise to. aware or knowledgeable or informed of or about, sensitive to, on to or onto, Colloq in the know about: You are wrong if you think she isn't wise to your little tricks. Get wise to what's going on, Man. --v. 6 wise up (to). become informed or aware (of or about), wake up (to), Colloq get wise (to) or in the know (about): If Cooley doesn't wise up, he'll be in deep trouble. Was it you who wised Meg up to the fact that Tom no longer cares?
wishy-washy adj. 1 neither here nor there, undecided, indecisive, irresolute, half-hearted, shilly-shallying, tergiversating, vacillating, uncertain, of or having mixed feelings, of two minds: Make up your mind and stop being so wishy-washy about everything! 2 feeble, weak, watery, watered down, thin, vapid, flat, bland, runny, diluted, tasteless, insipid, flavourless, stale: Isabel served me some wishy-washy tea and sent me on my way.
witch n. 1 sorceress, enchantress, magician, sibyl, pythoness; warlock: The witches prophesied that Macbeth would be king. 2 hag, fury, battleaxe, crone, gorgon, Medusa, ogress, Xanthippe, shrew, virago, harridan, fishwife, termagant, Archaic beldam or beldame, Offensive old bag, bitch: How could you stand living with the old witch for so many years?
withstand v. resist, oppose, stand (up to), face, defy, confront, combat, grapple with, fight (against), cope with, hold out against, weather, suffer, survive, tolerate, take, bear, last through, endure, brave, Colloq Brit stick: Can Brian withstand the pressure of his new job? Our small force withstood the attack for days.
wizened adj. wrinkled, shrunken, shrivelled (up), withered, gnarled, dried up, wilted, faded, wasted: The wizened old crone is his grandmother.
wonder n. 1 marvel, prodigy, phenomenon, spectacle, rarity, sight, curiosity, miracle, Slang knockout, stunner, mind-blower, mind-boggler, trip: Surely, the wheel must rank high among the wonders of technology. And still he gazed, and still the wonder grew, / That one small head could carry all he knew. 2 awe, astonishment, admiration, amazement, wonderment, surprise, stupefaction, fascination: Facsimile transmission, which used to excite so much wonder, is now used in offices all over the world. --v. 3 ponder, muse, meditate, think, theorize, conjecture, puzzle, query, question, inquire, be inquisitive, be curious, ask oneself, speculate, cudgel (one's) brains: I wondered if I would be invited to the dance. Have you ever wondered what makes the world go round? 4 marvel (at), goggle, gawk, gape, stare, be awed, be thunderstruck, be amazed, be astonished: We wondered at the death-defying skills of the trapeze artistes. 5 wonder about. question or doubt the sanity or reason or reasonableness of: I wondered about Tammy after that streaking episode.
word n. 1 (little) talk, (brief) conversation, chat, discussion, consultation, dialogue, huddle, parley, tte--tte, chit-chat, confabulation, conference, interview, Colloq powwow, confab: Could I have a word with you before you leave for the day? 2 news, intelligence, information, facts, data, report, story, tidings, account, communiqu, bulletin, dispatch or despatch, advice, message, Colloq low-down, Slang info, dope, Brit gen, US poop: Have you had any word about the situation in the Middle East? 3 name, term, designation, locution, appellation, expression, phrase: What is the word for 'write' in Greek? 4 promise, pledge, vow, oath, (solemn) word of honour, undertaking, assurance, warrant, guarantee or guaranty, warranty: You have my word that I won't mention this to anyone. 5 utterance, expression, declaration, statement: Let me give you a word of warning, my friend. 6 suggestion, hint, scintilla, bit: I promise that I won't breathe a word of this to anyone. 7 command, order, signal, direction, instruction, Colloq US high sign: I shall not press the red button till you give the word. 8 in a word. succinctly, briefly, in brief, in a few words, concisely, in short, in summary, in sum, not to mince words, to make a long story short, when all is said and done, in the final analysis, not to beat about the bush, Colloq in a nutshell: His bedside manner was, in a word, menacing. 9 words. a quarrel, dispute, argument, unpleasantness: Paul and Kitty had words and are not on speaking terms. b lyrics, book, libretto, text: Did Irving Berlin write the words as well as the music to his songs? --v. 10 put (forth), say, couch, express, phrase, utter, state, term, style, set forth: Had you worded your complaint in politer language, you might have spared yourself a punch in the eye.
worker n. labourer, working man or woman, workman, hand, employee, artisan, craftsman, tradesman, white-collar worker, blue-collar worker, proletarian, breadwinner, wage-earner: It seems unlikely that the workers would strike for longer hours and less pay.
worldly adv. 1 mundane, earthly, terrestrial, temporal, physical, carnal, fleshly, corporeal, human; lay, non-spiritual, non-religious, civic, secular, profane: Theo indulged in worldly pleasures in the fleshpots of the continent. Veronica put aside worldly things and took the veil. 2 urbane, suave, sophisticated, cosmopolitan, worldly-wise, Slang with it, hip, cool: Behind that worldly manner is the heart of a peasant.
worsen v. 1 increase, exacerbate, heighten, intensify, aggravate: The recent rains have worsened the drainage problem. 2 weaken, deteriorate, decline, degenerate, decay, slip, sink, slide, fail, disintegrate, take a turn for the worse, get worse, go from bad to worse, Colloq go downhill: Her condition continues to worsen.
worthwhile adj. 1 profitable, justifiable, productive, gainful, rewarding, fruitful, cost-effective, remunerative: Would it be worthwhile to buy up that land as a long-term investment? 2 useful, valuable, good, helpful, beneficial, worthy, beneficent, desirable, exemplary, matchless, honourable, upright, sterling, irreproachable: Brian Smith is one of the most worthwhile people I met at university.
wreak v. inflict, exercise, exert, carry out, bring (to bear), visit, effect, work, unleash, execute, impose, force, vent, let go: The tribesmen wreaked vengeance on the hill people for destroying their farms.
wrestle v. battle, fight, struggle, tussle, strive: After thirty years Garth wrestled his way to the top in the company.
wrinkle n. 1 crease, fold, line, furrow, crinkle, crow's-foot, corrugation, pucker, ridge: She hasn't a wrinkle on her face but then she's only nine. --v. 2 crease, fold, line, furrow, crinkle, corrugate, pucker, gather, ruck, crimp, screw up, rumple, crumple: I love the way you wrinkle your nose when you're perplexed.
writing n. 1 handwriting, longhand, penmanship, script, calligraphy or chirography, scribble: I sometimes have trouble reading your writing. 2 Sometimes, writings. (literary) work(s), composition, theme, book, article, critique, criticism, review, editorial, column, expos, essay, poetry, poem, novel, non-fiction, fiction, document, letter, correspondence, publication, Chiefly Brit journalism leading article or leader, Chiefly US journalism op-ed article: Her writing has been widely published. Poe's writings are collected in this book. 3 literature, belles-lettres, letters: I don't agree that British writing has declined since 1900.
yap v. 1 bark, yelp: Their dog was yapping away all night. 2 gabble, babble, blither or blather, chatter, jabber, tattle, prattle, prate, Colloq chiefly Brit witter, natter, Slang jaw, run on, US run off at the mouth: I wish she'd stop her yapping and give me some peace. --n. 3 mouth, Slang trap, gob, US bazoo: If only Sam would shut his big yap once in a while!
yearn v. long, pine, ache, hanker, itch, hunger, thirst, crave, have a craving, desire, wish, want, fancy, prefer: I yearn to see the green-clad hills of home once more, Before my vessel bears me from this mortal shore.
yet adv. 1 as yet, (up) till or until now, so far, thus far, hitherto, to the present (time): She hasn't arrived yet. 2 still, up to this time, up to now, even now, till or until now, to this day: She was there earlier and I think she's there yet. 3 moreover, furthermore, besides, further, still: He made yet another excuse. 4 in the future, in time to come, later, eventually: Despite the life I've led, I might yet get to heaven. 5 still, notwithstanding, anyway, anyhow, nonetheless, nevertheless, regardless, in spite of or despite everything, just or all the same, even so, after all, US still and all: Despite the life I've led, I might get to heaven yet. --conj. 6 notwithstanding, in spite of or despite it or that or the fact,still, nevertheless, but: He goes out every night, yet never oversleeps in the mornings.
youth n. 1 childhood, boyhood, girlhood, young manhood, young womanhood, prepubescence, pubescence, adolescence, salad days; immaturity, minority: In our youth we do many foolish things we might later regret. 2 child, youngster, schoolchild, teenager, teen, minor, juvenile, adolescent; boy, schoolboy, stripling, young boy or man, lad, laddie, whippersnapper; girl, lass, lassie, schoolgirl, maid, maiden, Literary damsel, demoiselle, mademoiselle, Colloq kid, (little) shaver, US and Canadian tad, Slang teeny-bopper, Brit sprog: As youths, they used to spend time at rock concerts. 3 children, youngsters, juveniles, adolescents, young people, young, Colloq kids: The youth of today have little respect for their elders.
zap v. destroy, kill, slaughter, annihilate, murder, slay, assassinate, liquidate, erase; shoot, electrocute, Slang rub out, polish off, knock off, bump off, snuff (out), waste, hit, US ice: The baddies got zapped by the ray gun, one after the other.
zero n. 1 nil, null, nothing, nought or naught, aught, cipher, Cricket duck, Colloq nix, US goose-egg, nada, niente, Slang Brit (sweet) Fanny Adams or FA, bugger-all, US zilch: Temperatures have remained below zero all day. The visiting team won three games, we won zero. 2 (rock) bottom, nadir: On a scale of one to ten, she is a zero. 3 nobody, nothing, nonentity, Slang US nebbish, bupkis: That fellow she married is a real zero. --v. 4 zero in on. focus on, pinpoint, fix on, home in on, concentrate on,bring to bear on: We zeroed in on the problem and then rapidly found the answer.